+++
title = "10"

+++





Quell’s mind moved outside the ship to find the captain, alone.

And though I could not see, I heard, and what the captain finally said was this: “What? Nothing? All quiet, gone, spent? Is this the end? No more the hunt, the journey, and the goal? That terrifies me most: No more the goal\! From here on then, what is the captain for? What does he do, if time and circumstance knock all the mountains down to one dull flat and endless plain, one long bleak winter afternoon, not even tea and simple bread to brighten it?

“Oh Christ, the thought of mindless noons that have no ends, or end in maunderings, stale tea leaves in a cup which tell no murders and no blood, and so no life—*that* breaks my bones. The sound of one leaf turning in a book would crack my spine. One dust mote burning on a sunlit hearth would smother my soul. The simple things that snug themselves in halls too clean, too quiet, that lie in well-made beds and smile idiot smiles\! Oh, turn away. Such peace is a winepress to crush your soul.

“And yet … God, *feel* … the universe itself fills me this hour with quiet joy. Unseen by me, there one small fire goes out, but yet another freshens itself forth in birth. It is my heart’s midnight, but yet some foundling sun reminds me that somewhere a million light-years on, a boy gets out of bed in cold well-water morn; the circus now arrives, a life’s begun with animals and flags and bunting and bright lights. Would I deny his right, his joy at rising to run forth and greet the show? I would deny, I *would*\!

“But no, ah God, but surely no. It cracks my heart to think of him derelict with age, but would I warn him not to turn the page and let life begin?

“I would\! Our very life’s a sin against itself\!

“But then again, once more, I’d keep my tongue and let him play. Go, boy, I would advise, on some far world. Start up the day, spin forth your captured joys. O, know delight. Mind not on me. I stay here with my night.”

Suddenly Small was behind me, and reached over my shoulder to adjust some controls on the console. The screen came to life, and we saw the captain out on the hull, tethered to the ship by an airline. Redleigh, similarly suited for space and tied to the ship by a line, hovered a few yards behind the captain. He had a weapon in his hand, but indecision showed on his face behind his airmask. Quell’s mind moved, searching, and he touched good Redleigh’s mind and in his thoughts I read: “When he speaks so, what must I do? Destroy or not destroy? And even as he moves back and forth, from light to dark, his madness most inconstant, so my own sanity wavers. I would kill him. But then again, I would not.”

“Leviathan\!” yelled the captain at the black emptiness surrounding him. “Stand forth\! You *must* be there\!”

I heard his breath rasping in the silent void, as he waited for an answer that would not come.

“Oh, God,” he continued. “Give me, oh give me back just one millionth part of all the visions of my youth. Restore my sight. For just one moment in this long night, give me the strength that vision gives to finish out this thing, see darkness with these eyes, know whiteness then for death, do justice with these hands\! Give back, oh I beseech, I humbly ask, I do cry out, I *pray*\!”

At this the captain spun around, as if he was about to fall in the zero gravity of space, as if the weight of all he had said was too much.

“Captain\!” Redleigh cried out. “No\!”

“But yes … it’s *given.”* The captain struggled to right himself. “Hold on, it’s given back\! My vision is clear. The universe stands right. I can see\! The stars\! My God, the billion stars, the stars\!”

At which the captain wept.

Redleigh, seeing those same stars, spoke to himself. “Oh thank you, God, for miracles which teach. But then, I wonder, will he *learn*?”

“Who is that?” the captain said. “Redleigh? Is that you? My *friend’s* face seen at last?”

He reached out and almost touched the faceplate of his first mate’s helmet.

Redleigh responded, “It is the face of a friend. And this friend says, Turn back. There is still time. Time comes back to us. Your sight is healed. What more can you ask for now? It is a sign, a miracle. It is a true gift given you, sir. Now *act* on it.”

“I will,” the captain said. “Let me drink first. Let me look. Oh, Redleigh, it is like fresh mountain water. It is a cold, clear thing, this gift of seeing once again. Oh, God, the universe is lovely strange. I have hungered for it for thirty years. There is no bottom to my thirst. Let me stare. Let me truly stand alert. Let my eyes open wide, there, and yet more and more.”

There was a soft pulsation of green and yellow light on the monitor before us, a far sound of bells and cries of murmuring waves and crowds.

I listened, close.

“Quell,” I asked. “What is it?”

“Time,” Quell said, “turns upon itself.”

“Look, and *feel*\!” the captain said.

And Quell told all that he felt and saw: “The knot falls loose … great Time unties itself. The years reverse. We have returned. Leviathan gives back our time and years. This is 2099.”

“2099,” the captain said. “Redleigh, did you hear?”

“Yes, Captain, yes\!”

“We are once again in our proper hour\! Two gifts, Mr. Redleigh. The gift of seeing and the gift of long-returning years.”

“God is generous, Captain. He has corrected the calendar and touched your eyes.”

“Would that *that* were true.”

“It *is\!”*

“No, it only *seems* to be so,” the captain said. “Not God but the beast has made these offerings. It bribes me to stand clear. It sweetens me with banquetings of sight to mend my soul and fend me off. That stuff is spoiled. Need be, I’ll now sew up these eyes or pluck them out with these two hands. I do not bribe. I do not take. I do not stay. If time is given me, I’ll use it to make plans. If sight is given me, I’ll use it well to mark my enemy’s burial place. Leviathan, thy gifts will be a sword into thy breast\!”

“Captain, it says escape\!”

“To what? To run to Earth and on the way have time reversed again so we are greeted by the bones of Charlemagne or fall dead with Caesar, bloodied in his forum?”

“Christ’s bones\! God’s ghost, oh give me strength to pull this trigger.”

The weapon Redleigh carried was now pointed directly at the captain.

“You never will.”

“But if I could\!” said Redleigh. “How fine to land back home and go with simple cavemen into a cave, live out a life less a nightmare than all this, lie down with saber-tooths, sweet Christ, and *rest* awhile.”

“We shall rest, Mr. Redleigh, at the dead heart of the comet.”

“I see,” said Redleigh. “Now I *am* dead. Let me put away my gun. Here comes Leviathan, to pick my bones. Shall I greet it, Captain, with you?”

There was a great light, an immense sound, a fantastic approaching dazzle and splendor.

And Quell echoed, “To pick my bones.”




