+++
title = "Gods"
+++

## All-knowing
Today I am having compassion for the being that is said to be all-knowing. and this compassion extends also to my philosopher colleagues who have extensively worked on omniscience. For every fact, there are millions of fabrications. One cannot actually know what love is like without experiencing it first hand. But what about hate? But I am more worried about knowing things like infinity. I do not think that all-knowing entity has not fathomed it, but then that would be finite. i am perfectly fine to remain ignorant than to know the hair count in every single rat ball, past and future.

Knowing negative facts is in itself a daunting achievement, knowing every single co-ordinate and every possible genetic composition is mind-boggling. We the ignorant humans can cherish our ignorance for at least we can learn something new, be excited about knowing something new, listen to new music that we never heard before, see a place that we had never been before. This is fun. What is fun in not being able to laugh on little jokes or taste a fruit that you did not even know existed.

Can this all-knowing being create something that he did not know before or did not exist in the screen of his mind before? May be this all-knowing being is like me who has to go to the doctor to find out if I have any disease in my body.

## True Colors
Alice Wells argues that the law in Nepal that criminalizes forceful religious conversion has threatened the minority communities. Basically, America is demanding forceful conversion in Nepal.

## How to make god
A friend of mine worked on new religious movements. She encouraged me to also research in this direction but I was too rigid. I have now come to the realization that if you want to understand what constitutes religion, it is easier by means of reading new movements. This is not because you get to read a new bible but because you get to write one. And not because you can choose between this or that god but you can make one. I came to this realization upon my trip to Nepal this time when I also chanced to see god. God is what power and money says it is. This handicapped innocent boy projected to be god is not my first encounter with the divine. I have met babajis and ammajis before but their disguise was too sophisticated for me to analyze. Any time I meet someone claiming to be god either I feel funny or appalled. A scholar cannot feel either. This is why I am not a scholar to study god. But if you have decided to invest your life studying god, study the living ones. That is where you can actually see the sacred being formed. Think of the womb and the slime and the fluid and also a new life, a baby. You cannot have one without the other. Lying in the lap of his mother, this innocent handicapped boy was no less a charisma. And there were rich and powerful people making him god.

A part of me is skeptic. But unlike the ordained skeptics, I have sought gurus and asked for their instructions.+++(4)+++ Thanks to my teachers for investing time teaching me Nagarjuna and Sriharsa, I am cut for something else. But god is not something I can ignore. Particularly when it is next door, living and breathing, and the crowd cheering and chanting his mantras. I can understand being a nonbeliever. I just cannot understand being a believer and not believing in unbelievable. If you are a believer, you should believe the most unbelievable. Otherwise you are an imposter. If you question a hermit whether he is enlightened, you are like me. But I understand that you want to be a believer and not believe anything else or that would not make a real belief. But have you ever questioned whether your story is the most unbelievable among all? Find the one, and stick to it.

First I thought humans have god for the concept of all powerful being watching over them. That was when I would trade my book for a candy. And then I realized that humans have god to make them almighty, to make them god-makers. By carefully crafting god, humans have mastered the art of defining the absolute. Defining parallels domesticating. Definitions confine. And when you can make the least believable of all the stories as the most potent of all, you are now a real god-maker. Who would follow Moses for seeing a bush burning! “It was all ablaze but nothing was burning,” and you get the followers.+++(5)+++ When the Buddha said, I do feel hunger, his followers abandoned him. And when he said, I have realized all that is there to be realized, they rejoined. Followers are like that.

A god has to be your puppet. Otherwise why would the believers make so many demands from their gods. If you believe that humans conceived of god to fathom the absolute, you are very much misguided. It is by means of god that humans have discovered their absolute nature. The first among them were the priest kings, as god would privately counsel them. And then came the race among those claiming their god is more powerful than the other’s. But what they missed in this triumphant race is the core that it was supposed to be hollow. You can enjoy a sand castle as long as you know it is made of sand. Once you believe it to be real, you are not playing any more. The same applies to monopoly or thief and police. The moment you think you are a real police, the game is over. This is the problem with old beliefs. They are so deeply engrained that believers do not know it was all make believe. And this turns into nightmare.+++(5)+++ I had the most productive time seeing the way this little boy was made god by a few rich and powerful people. They are still playing the game of make believe. This is where the sacred is alive as the human has not forgotten creativity. The highest among all forms of creativity lies in making god.

## Vulgar names
I believe construction of the vulgar has historically coincided with masking the name of God. In the culture with multiple gods/goddesses, the first or early name becomes private, like the private parts of the body. Addressing the gods with such names would be a violation of the social norms, similar to walking naked in the public. Innermost human expression thus gets expunged from the public discourse. We hide the names of gods similar to our private parts.

in some occasions, it gets wiped out of the memory of the public. in some, the value of the original names diminish, as if calling those names would be similar to calling someone with his nicknames. the old names become like the childhood names and calling gods with those names would be like name-calling.

the public, for example, does not know who the goddess Taleju is. there are hundreds of temples of Ajima, but that only means "grandma," hiding the name of the goddess from the public, to the extent that, not all ajimas are the same and priests have forgotten the original ritual manuals. Our Guhyeshwari is a public name, as her esoteric name has the mantras embedded within and we are not supposed to spill the name out. this, to me, is broader phenomenon.

## Sacred and Genitals
Whether in the discovery of the śiśnadevāḥ or in castration observed in various symbolic or explicit rites, whether in observing celibacy in worshipping specific deity or in esoteric sex rites, be it some vāmācāra rituals or the offerings made by Hammurabi's divine prostitutes, the sacred is always intertwined with the genitals. The discovery of the sacred and the discovery of the gendered identity appear to be the same.

The death of God coincides with the secularization of human sexuality.

## Kula Devata
In Nepal and I believe in many parts of India, families have their own "family deity," a deity recognized as the protector of their family for generations. Occasionally worshipped once a year or sometimes even once in every twelve years, only the members of a specific family can join the celebration. Many Nepalese families worship Masta or Masto. Even the offerings are not shared with other families, no matter how close they are in their social life.

Following the new sense of equality, should the families allow all other families to participate in the rituals. So far, this has not been an issue because they all have their own kula devata to worship.

## Reflections on God Determinism
"I have already killed them", "God is in the heart of all the sentient beings," says Krishna. I wonder why Krishna bothers teaching Arjuna, for, should not the act of Arjuna predetermined like those of the others. And he says, people act according to their guṇa and karma. Meaning, he gives different gunas for different people and he gives different karmas for people to suffer? I think the better way would be to say that we are determined now for our acts due to our karma in the past. But this karmic determination is not God determinism.

So God has already determined everything that is happening now. Meaning, all the events were determined in the remote past. And God is pathetically sitting afterward? Or is he constantly determining the course of events? Meaning, the events were not determined before and therefore he is determining now?

So God determined the plight of Pandavas and determined his own incarnation as Krishna so that Pandavas could recognize him as God? I have invoked the Mother many times and have felt her direct presence in my life and have felt the turn of events on my behalf. But I cannot imagine the Mother would have had determined all the horrors I went through in my life and not changed the course of events. And on top of that, expected my unconditional surrendering!

I am a mortal. Transitory being, actually. Even if I defend freedom, this will be for this finite being. Why should I cling onto something so ephemeral? But I love my brothers who love God and say, God has determined everything, and failed to realize how they are taking away God's freedom by this statement.+++(5)+++ So God has determined everything already and God acts by abiding within this determined framework. Meaning, God has no freedom. But let us say, God has determined everything but God keeps breaking his own rules, then what the shit is that determination worth, particularly coming from God!  So God's incarnation is predetermined. The death of these incarnations, be that of Rama or Krishna are predetermined, who is this determining the fate of God. Do not blame me, I do not even like my own life determined, why would I determine the fate of God.

When I read the Bhagavadgita, I feel that Arjuna has both freedom and determined course of events. Krishna here functions both as an individual being and God. From God's eye view, Krishna is indifferent and is the totality of being and things, of events now and then. But as individual, he also has passion and he loves and cares. As a finite being, he also has limited freedom to exercise but as God, he does not need to exercise his freedom for some cause. We thus enter into Krishna's paradox. And the kids defending determinism would say, look, that is not freedom. What they are arguing is, if you cannot drive in one way street in the opposite direction, then they cannot defend freedom. Freedom does not imply driving in the opposite lane.

I just fail to comprehend why would God determine the fate of Pandavas the way he allegedly did - so that his own fate would be sealed, that he would have to be a mortal. Quite likely, he also had no choice. Why is there so much of suffering in the world, why is there evil in the world? Most likely, God also had no choice. We all are on the same boat, buddy!

I think we have fundamentally mistaken the concept. Let me draw two Ven diagrams to explain this. In one, draw a big circle and a tiny circle inside. And in another, draw a big circle and a tiny circle next to it. The first diagram depicts me and Kali, my understanding of the divine. The second diagram depicts Mr R and his God. In the case of my diagram, my freedom is part of divine freedom and if I am fully determined, so is the divine, at least for the space and time that I occupy. In the second diagram, the limitations within individual do not reflect limitations within God. In that case God is completely the other.

But I know, I am not fully free. Does not this mean that even the freedom of Kali is relational? But what is the problem there? We are floating and surfacing in the dance of becoming, experiencing new modes of freedom and determination that are co-determined, not just shaped by the categories of freedom and determination but also by my own actions within the collective that stir new ripples in the totality. And now I can see my fury as her fury and my arousal, her arousal.

But what is my last word for those who are convinced that God has determined all the events in their life? Nothing. For God has already determined their fate and made their heart so tight, they are not willing to open it for any amount of reasoning.
