+++
title = "04"

+++





The air was hot as the bakery wagon moved and then, as they reached the shadows of trees, the air began to cool.

The young man leaned forward.

“How did you guess?”

“What?” said the driver.

“That I’m a writer,” said the young man.

The taxi driver glanced at the passing trees and nodded.

“Your tongue improves your words on their way out. Keep talking.”

“I’ve heard rumors about Summerton.”

“Lots of folks *hear,* few arrive.”

“I heard your town’s another time and place, vanishing maybe. Surviving, I hope.”

“Let me see your good eye,” said the driver.

The reporter turned and looked straight on at him.

The driver nodded again.

“Nope, not yet jaundiced. I think you see what you look at, tell what you feel. Welcome. Name’s Culpepper. Elias.”

“Mr. Culpepper.” The young man touched the older man’s shoulder. “James Cardiff.”

“Lord,” said Culpepper. “Aren’t we a pair? Culpepper and Cardiff. Could be genteel lawyers, architects, printers. Names like that don’t come in tandems. Culpepper and, now, Cardiff.”

And Claude the horse trotted a little more quickly through the shadows of trees.

The horse rambled through town, Elias Culpepper pointing right and left, chatting up a storm.

“There’s the envelope factory. All our mail starts there. There’s the steam works, once made steam, I forget what for. And right now, passing *Culpepper Summerton News.* If there’s news once a month, we *print* it\! Four pages in large, easy-to-read type. So you see, you and I are, in a way, in the same business. You don’t, of course, also rein horses and punch rail tickets.”

“I most certainly don’t,” said James Cardiff, and they both laughed quietly.

“And,” said Elias Culpepper, as Claude rounded a curve into a lane where elms and oaks and maples fused the center and wove the sky in green and blue colors, a fine thatchwork above and below, “this is New Sunrise Way. Best families live here. That’s the Ribtrees’, there’s the Townways’. And—”

“My God,” said James Cardiff. “Those front *lawns. Look,* Mr. Culpepper\!”

And they drove by fence after fence, where crowds of sunflowers lifted huge round clock faces to time the sun, to open with the dawn and close with the dusk, a hundred in this patch under an elm, two hundred in the next yard, and five hundred beyond.

Every curb was lined with the tall green stalks ending in vast dark faces and yellow fringes.

“It’s like a crowd watching a parade,” said James Cardiff.

“Come to think,” said Elias Culpepper.

He gave a genteel wave of his hand.

“Now, Mr. Cardiff. You’re the first reporter’s visited in years. Nothing’s happened here since 1903, the year of the *Small* Flood. Or 1902, if you want the *Big* One. Mr. Cardiff, what would a reporter be wanting with a town like this where nothing happens by the hour?”

“Something *might*,” said Cardiff, uneasily.

He raised his gaze and looked at the town all around. You’re here, he thought, but maybe you won’t be. I know, but won’t tell. It’s a terrible truth that may wipe you away. My mind is open, but my mouth is shut. The future is uncertain and unsure.

Mr. Culpepper pulled a stick of spearmint gum from his shirt pocket, peeled its wrapper, popped it in his mouth, and chewed.

“You *know* something *I* don’t know, Mr. Cardiff?”

“Maybe,” said Cardiff, “*you* know things about Summerton *you* haven’t told *me.*”

“Then I hope we both fess up soon.”

And with that, Elias Culpepper reined Claude gently into the graveled driveway of the sunflower yard of a private home with a sign above the porch: EGYPTIAN VIEW ARMS. BOARDING.

And he had not lied.

No Nile River was in sight.




