+++
title = "07"

+++





Inside the dim hall, Cardiff felt as if he had moved into a summer-cool milk shed that smelled of large canisters of cream hidden away from the sun, and iceboxes dripping their secret liquors, and bread laid out fresh on kitchen tables, and pies cooling on windowsills.

Cardiff took another step and knew he would sleep nine hours a night here and wake like a boy at dawn, excited that he was alive, and all the world beginning, morn after morn, glad for his heart in his body, and his pulse in his wrists.

He heard someone laughing. And it was himself, overwhelmed with a joy he could not explain.

There was the merest motion from somewhere high in the house. Cardiff looked up.

Descending the stairs, and pausing now at seeing him, was the most beautiful woman in the world.

Somewhere, sometime, he had heard someone say: Fix the image before it fades. So said the first cameras that trapped light and carried that illumination to obscuras where chemicals laid out in porcelain caused the trapped ghosts to rouse. Faces caught at noon were summoned up out of sour baths to reestablish their eyes, their mouths, and then the haunting flesh of beauty or arrogance, or the impatience of a child held still. In darkness the phantoms lurked in chemicals until some gestures surfaced them out of time into a forever that could be held in the hands long after the warm flesh had vanished.

It was thus and so with this woman, this bright noon wonder who descended the stairs into the cool shadow of the hall only to reemerge in a shaft of sunlight in the dining room door. Her hand drifted to take Cardiff’s hand, and then her wrist and arm and shoulder and at last, as from that chemistry in an obscura room, the ghost of a face so lovely it burst on him like a flower when the dawn causes it to widen its beauty. Her measuring bright and summer-electric eyes shone merrily, watching him, as if he, too, had just arisen from those miraculous tides in which memory swims, as if to say: Remember me?

*I do\!* he thought.

*Yes?* he thought he heard her say.

*Yes\!* he cried, not speaking. *I always hoped I might remember you.*

*Well, then,* her eyes said, *we shall be friends. Perhaps in another time, we met.*

“They’re waiting for us,” she said aloud.

*Yes,* he thought, *for* both *of us\!*

And now he spoke. “Your name?”

*But you already know it,* her silence replied.

And it was the name of a woman dead these four thousand years and lost in Egyptian sands, and now refreshed at noon in another desert near an empty station and silent tracks.

“Nefertiti,” he said. “A fine name. It means the Beautiful One Is Here.”

“Ah,” she said, “you know.”

“Tutankhamen came from the tomb when I was three,” he said. “I saw his golden mask and wanted my face to be his.”

“But it is,” she said. “You just never noticed.”

“Can I believe that?”

“Believe it and it will happen in the midst of your belief. Are you hungry?”

*Starved,* he thought, staring at her.

“Before you fall,” she laughed, “come.”

And she led him in to a feasting of summer gods.




