+++
title = "09"

+++





When he looked up, Nef’s chair was empty. The other diners, too, had all left the table, gone back to their rocking chairs or, perhaps, to summer afternoon naps.

“Lord,” he murmured. “That woman, young, but how young? Old, but how old?”

Suddenly Elias Culpepper touched his elbow.

“You want a real tour of our town? Claude needs to deliver some more fresh-baked bread. On your feet\!”



The wagon was loaded with a redolent harvest. The warm loaves had been neatly stacked row on row within the oven-smelling wagon, thirty or forty loaves in all, with names lettered on the wax-paper wrappings. Beside these were waxed boxes of muffins and cakes, carefully tied with string.

Cardiff took three immense inhalations and almost fell with the overconsumption.

Culpepper handed him a small packet and a knife.

“What’s this?” said Cardiff.

“You won’t be a block away before the bread overcomes you. This is a butter knife. This here is a full loaf. Don’t bring it back.”

“It’ll ruin my supper.”

“No. Enhance. Summer outside. Summer inside.”

He handed over a pad with names and addresses.

“Just in case,” said Culpepper.

“You’re sending me out on my own? How do I know where to go?”

“Don’t you worry. Claude knows the way. Never got lost yet. Right, Claude?”

Claude looked back, neither amused nor serious, just *ready.*

“Just go easy on the reins. Claude’s got his own system. You just tag along. It’s the only way to see the town without any jabber from me. Giddap.”

Cardiff jumped aboard. Claude tugged, the wagon lurched forward.

“Hell.” He fumbled with the notebook, scanning the names and addresses. “What’s the first stop?”

“Git\!”

The bread wagon drifted away, warming the air with the heady scents of yeast and grain.

Claude trotted as if he could hardly wait to be right.




