+++
title = "21"

+++





“This is gonna be great,” said James Edward McCoy. “I can see it now: my byline on stories about how Summerton, Arizona, hit the rocks and sank. Johnstown flood stand aside. San Francisco earthquake, forget it. I’ll expose how the government destroyed the innocents and plowed their front lawns with salt. First the *New York Times*, then papers in London, Paris, Moscow, even Canada. News junkies love to read about others’ misery—here’s an entire town being strangled to death by government greed. And I’m going to tell the world.”

“Is that all you can see in this?” said Cardiff.

“Twenty-twenty vision\!”

“Look around,” said Cardiff. “It’s a town with no people. No people, no story. Nobody cares if a town falls if there are no people in it. Your ‘story’ will run for one day, maybe. No book deal, no TV series, no film for you. Empty town. Empty bank account.”

A scowl split McCoy’s face.

“Son of a bitch,” he murmured. “Where in hell is everyone?”

“They were never here.”

“No one’s here now, but the houses get painted, the lawns get mowed? They *were* just here, have to have been. You know that and you’re lying to me. You know what’s going on.”

“I didn’t till now.”

“And you’re not telling me? So you’re keeping the headlines to yourself to protect this pathetic little ghost town?”

Cardiff nodded.

“Damn fool. Go on, stay poor and righteous. With you or without you I’m going to get to the bottom of this. Gangway\!”

McCoy lunged down the porch steps, onto the street. He rushed up to the adjacent house and pulled open the door, stuck his head in, then entered. He emerged a moment later, slammed the door, and ran on to the next house, yanked open that screen door, jumped in, came out, his blood-red visage quoting dark psalms. Again and again he opened and closed the doors of half a dozen other empty houses.

Finally, McCoy returned to the front yard of the Egyptian View Arms. He stood there, panting, muttering to himself. As his voice drifted off into silence, a bird flew over and dropped a calling card on James Edward McCoy’s vest.

Cardiff stared off across the meadow-desert. He imagined the shrieks of the arriving trainloads of hustling reporters. In his mind’s eye he saw a twister of print inhaling the town and whirling it off into nothing.

“So.” McCoy stood before him. “Where are all the people?”

“That seems to be a mystery,” said Cardiff.

“I’m sending my first story now\!”

“And how will you do that? No telegraphs or telephones.”

“Holy jeez\! How in hell do they *live*?”

“They’re aerophiles, orchids, they breathe the air. But wait. You haven’t examined everything. Before you go off half-cocked, there’s one place I must show you.”




