+++
title = "22"

+++





Cardiff led McCoy into the vast yard of motionless stones and flightless angels. McCoy peered at the markers.

“Damn. There’s plenty of names, but no dates. When did they die?”

“They didn’t,” Cardiff said softly.

“Good God, lemme look closer.”

McCoy took six steps west, four steps east, and came to …

The open grave with a coffin gaping wide, and a spade tossed to one side.

“What’s this? Funeral today?”

“I dug that,” said Cardiff. “I was looking for something.”

“Something?” McCoy kicked some dirt clods into the grave. “You know more than you’re telling. Why are you protecting this town?”

“All I know is that I might stay on.”

“If you stay, you cannot tell these people the whole truth—that the bulldozers are coming, and the cement mixers, the funeral directors of progress. And *if* you leave, will you tell them *before* you go?”

Cardiff shook his head.

“Which leaves *me*,” said McCoy, “as guardian of their virtues?”

“God, I hope not.” Cardiff shifted by the open grave. Clods fell to drum the coffin.

McCoy backed off, nervously staring down at the open grave and into the empty coffin. “Hold on.” A strange look came over his face. “My God, I bet you brought me here to stop my telephoning out, or even trying to leave town\! You …”

At this, McCoy spun, lost his footing, and fell.

“Don’t\!” cried Cardiff.

McCoy fell into the coffin full-sprawled, eyes wide, to see the spade fall, loosened by accident or thrown in murder, he never knew. The spade struck his brow. The jolt shook the coffin lid. It slammed shut over his stunned and now colorless eyes.

The bang of the coffin lid shook the grave and knocked down dirt showers, smothering the box.

Cardiff stood amazed and in shock, a mile above.

Had McCoy slipped, he wondered, or was he *pushed*?

His foot dislodged another shower of dirt. Did he hear someone shrieking beneath the lid? Cardiff saw his shoes kick more dirt down into silence. With the box now hidden, he backed off, moaning, stared at the tombstone above etched with someone else’s name, and thought, *That must be changed.*

And then he turned and ran, blindly, stumbling, out of the yard.




