+++
title = "24"

+++





They were passing the graveyard.

*I have committed murder,* Cardiff thought.

And, impulsively, he cried, “Claude\!”

Claude froze and Cardiff jumped out of the wagon and rushed into the graveyard.

Swaying over the grave, he reached down in a terrible panic to lift the lid.

McCoy was there, not dead but sleeping, having given up, and was now taking a snooze.

Exhaling, Cardiff spoke down at his terrible enemy, glad that he was alive.

“Stay there,” he said. “You don’t know it, but you’re going home.” He dropped the lid gently, taking care to insert a twig in the gap between top and bottom to allow for air.

He ran back to Claude, who, sensing the visit was over, started off again at a good clop.

All around them the yards and porches were empty.

*Where,* Cardiff wondered, *has everyone gone?*

He had his answer when Claude stopped.

They stood before a large, rather handsome brick building, its entrance flanked by two Egyptian sphinxes lying supine, half-lioness and half-god, with faces he could almost name.

Cardiff read these words: HOPE MEMORIAL LIBRARY.

And in small letters beneath that: KNOW HOPE, ALL YE WHO ENTER HERE.

He climbed the library steps to find Elias Culpepper standing before the great double front doors. Culpepper behaved as if he’d been expecting the younger man, and motioned at him to sit down on the library steps.

“We’ve been waiting for you,” he said.

“We?” said Cardiff.

“The whole town, or most of it,” said Culpepper. “Where have you been?”

“The graveyard,” said Cardiff.

“You spend too much time there. Is there a problem?”

“Not anymore, if you can help me mail something home. Is there a train expected anytime soon?”

“Should be one passing through sometime today,” said Elias Culpepper. “Doubt it’ll stop. That hasn’t happened in …”

“*Can* it be stopped?”

“Could try flares.”

“I’ve got a package I want sent, if you can stop it.”

“I’ll light the flares,” said Culpepper. “Where’s this package going?”

“Home,” Cardiff said again. “Chicago.”

He wrote a name and address on a page ripped from his notepad, and handed the piece of paper to Culpepper.

“Consider it done,” said Culpepper. He rose and said, “Now I think you ought to go inside.”

Cardiff turned and pushed the great library doors and stepped in.

He read a sign above the front counter: CARPE DIEM, SEIZE THE DAY. It could have also read: SEIZE A BOOK. FIND A LIFE. BIRTH A METAPHOR.

His gaze drifted to find a large part of the town’s population seated at two dozen tables, books open, reading, and keeping the SILENCE that other signs suggested.

As if pulled by a single string, they turned, nodded at Cardiff, and turned back to their books.

The young woman behind the library front desk was an incredible beauty.

“My God,” he whispered. “Nef\!”

She raised her hand and pointed, then beckoned for him to follow.

She walked ahead of him and she might well have had a lantern in her hand to light the dim stacks, for her face was illumination. Wherever she glanced, the darkness failed and a faint light touched the gold lettering along the shelves.

The first stack was labeled: ALEXANDRIA ONE.

And the second: ALEXANDRIA TWO.

And the last: ALEXANDRIA THREE.

“Don’t say it,” he said, quietly. “Let me. The libraries at Alexandria, five hundred or a thousand years before Christ, had three fires, maybe more, and everything burned.”

“Yes,” Nef said. “This first stack contains all or most of the books burned in the first fire, an accident.

“This second stack from the second burning, also an accident, has all the lost books and destroyed texts of that terrible year.

“And the last, the third, contains all the books from the third conflagration—a burning by mobs, the purposeful destruction of history, art, poetry, and plays in 455 B.C.

“In 455 B.C.,” she repeated quietly.

“My God,” he said, “how were they all saved, how did they get *here*?”

“We *brought* them.”

“How?\!”

“We are tomb robbers.” Nef ran her finger along the stacks. “For the profit of the mind, the extension of the soul, whatever the soul is. We can only try to describe the mystery. Long before Schliemann, who found not one but twenty Troys, our ancestors played finders-keepers with the grandest library in time, one that would never burn, would live forever and allow those who entered to touch and scan, a chance to run after an extra piece of existence. This building is absolute proof against fire. In one form or another, it has traveled from Moses, Caesar, Christ, and will continue on toward the new Apollo and the Moon that the rocket chariot will reach.”

“But still,” he said. “Those libraries were ruined. Are these duplicates of duplicates? The lost are found, but how?”

Nef laughed quietly. “It was a hard task. Down through the centuries, a book here or there, a play one place, a poem another. A huge jigsaw, fitted in pieces.”

She moved on in the comfortable twilight spilling through the library’s tall windows, brushing her fingers over the names and titles.

“Remember when Hemingway’s wife left his novel manuscript on a train, lost forever?”

“Did he divorce or kill her?”

“The marriage survived for a while. But that manuscript is here.”

He looked at the worn typewriter box labeled: FOOTHILLS; KILIMANJARO.

“Have you read it?”

“We’re afraid to. If it is as fine as some of his work, it would break our hearts because it must remain lost. If it’s bad, we might feel worse. Perhaps Papa knew it was best for it to remain lost. He wrote another *Kilimanjaro,* with *Snows* instead.”

“How in hell did you find it?”

“The week it was lost we advertised. Which is more than Papa did. We sent him a copy. He never replied, and the *Snows* was published a year later.”

Again she moved to touch more volumes.

“Edgar Allan Poe’s final poem, rejected. Herman Melville’s last tale, unseen.”

“How?”

“We visited their deathbeds in their last hours. The dying sometimes speak in tongues. If you know the language of deliriums you can transcribe their strange sad truths. We tend them like special guardians late at night, and summon a last vital spark and listen closely and keep their words. Why? Since we are the passengers of time, we thought it only proper to save what might be saved on our passage to eternity, to preserve what might be lost if neglected, and add some small bit of our far-traveling and long life. We have guarded not only Troy and its ruins and sifted the Egyptian sands for wise stones to put beneath our tongues to clear our speech, but we have, like cats, inhaled the breaths of mortals, siphoned and published their whispers. Since we have been gifted with long lives, the least we can do is pass that gift on in inanimate objects—novels, poems, plays—books that rouse to life when scanned by a living eye. You must never receive a gift, ever, without returning the gift twice over. From Jesus of Nazareth to noon tomorrow, our baggage is the library and its silent speech. Each book is Lazarus, yes? And you the reader, by opening the covers, bid Lazarus to come forth. And he lives again, *it* lives again, the dead words warmed by your glance.”

“I never thought … ,” Cardiff said.

“Think.” She smiled. “Now,” she said, “I believe it’s time for a picnic, to celebrate we don’t know what. But celebrate we must.”




