+++
title = "1"
+++

\- GANG FIT \– 


\(Part One\) 


## Preface


Much of Gang Fit’s content contradicts the usual advice –  
if you follow it you will undoubtedly get grief from most sections of society.  
This is what happens when you start thinking and acting for yourself.

The majority of adults are modern-day slaves,  
do as they say and you’ll end up the same way.+++(5)+++  
From the very first page they will hate this book -  
they’ll say its message is anti-social and encourages bad behavior.  
Yes, bad behavior *as they see it*.  
If you want to be an individual when you’re older,  
and not a clone,  
you will *have to be* *different to them*. This means breaking rules.

Oldies have become fossilised,  
stuck in their ways,  
unable to see things the way you do.  
Furthermore, their physical condition has deteriorated to the point  
where the fuckers can hardly run for a bus.

They have no pride.  
This book is only ‘anti-social’ in their world,  
not yours.+++(5)+++  
What you’re doing is building a strong physique,  
an independent mind and a warrior spirit.  
That’s something to be proud of.



You are young, you have dreams and ambitions.  
Inside you there is something wild, powerful and unstoppable -  
something waiting to be unleashed.  
Adults had this once; now they haven’t.  
This is what they’re scared of,  
so they call it bad behaviour.  
So, be prepared for a fight ,  
because that’s what you’re gonna get.


## Contents 

****

****

Introduction

****

Smash up the world 

Discover different worlds without a spaceship 

Don’t leave your education to school 

Dynamic Endurance 

The Educated Idiot 

Become unemployable 

Survive without money 

Somatotype 

Mental strength and fearlessness 

Obliteration 

Out of work in summertime 

Brotherhood 

Asteroid threat and you 

Unleash the beast 

Street Olympian 

Us vs Them 

The Street Scientist 

Fear 

Don’t waste your time doing shit 

Super Strength 

Berserker 

Create problems 

Jump off a building 

Cowardice 

High Intensity Interval Training \(HIIT\) 

Anger is an energy 

Ritalin Boy 

Off Grid 

Human marshmallow 

“There is always tomorrow” 

****

Food 

Boomerang 

Fucked-up-ness 

Exploitation 

King of the Hill 

Oobleck 

Develop your talents 

Now you see me, now you don’t 

Muscle and Strength 

Claws, Horns, Teeth and Hooves 

Milo of Croton 

Never been a better time to be a nobody 



****

****

## Introduction



People are constantly telling you what you should do,  
how to behave and how to live your life -  
but before you follow the herd,  
look at the individuals who are telling you this.  
What do they look like?  
Do you want to be like them?  
Gang Fit shows you a different way –  
it is completely unique in that much of the content is shockingly at odds  
with the advice you’re getting elsewhere.  
Aren’t you sick and tired of listening to the constant jabber  
about education, university and employment?  
Adults say that all that shit is the reality of life - 

> “Billy\! Money doesn’t grow on trees you know; be responsible, you’ve got to pass your exams and get a job\!” 

Listen very carefully - that is their reality, it doesn’t have to be yours. If you do it, you *will * get somewhere in life but it *won’t* be the place you want it to be.

In reality there are probably less than five people on the entire planet who *really* want you to do well in life.+++(5)+++  
No one else gives a shit.  
Some young people can’t seem to deal with this,  
so they write awful poetry and pretend to self-harm.  
That’s not the answer; fighting is.  
You need to fight and bust-up the usual way of doing things.  
Be aware though that being independent  
and rejecting the rules and conventions that don’t suit you  
will severely wind people up -  
in an attempt to put you down they’ll bracket you as mindless, argumentative, juvenile and aggressive.  
Fuck them - your life is yours.

At the same time as fighting the brain-dead you also need to declare war on yourself -  
your own insecurities and weaknesses.  
This is the real challenge.  
Your own mind is what holds you back the most.  
Your weaknesses, fears, and timidity are like ballistic missiles  
that will destroy your ambitions and kill your attempts at progress.  
The most important thing for you to do -  
far more important than exams and degrees,  
is to assassinate your weak mind and replace it with a warrior mind.



From now on, *decide what you want* and  
ignore all the crap that others vomit.  
Shed any low-level attitude you may have about yourself.  
Build your body and strengthen your mind.  
Approach things like you’re some sort of scientist - experiment on yourself,  
test your limits and push the boundaries.  
Unleash the wild beast inside you and live free or die trying.





## Smash up the world 



Some arse-wipe once told me,  
“the world doesn’t owe you a living”,  
but the crusty old coffin-dodger didn’t have the brains to comprehend the flipside,  
that the free individual doesn’t owe the world either.+++(5)+++  
You don’t owe anything to anybody,  
especially those individuals who think they have some sort of authority over you.  
Oh, I forgot…the world doesn’t have to do shit for you  
but *you have to do what you’re* *told*?  
What sort of arrangement is that? Were you asked about this?

Every person on the planet was born out of a woman’s vagina, just like you.  
They were naked and covered with blood and crap, just like you.  
They had their umbilical cord cut, just like you.  
For a whole year they pissed and shitted themselves, just like you. No one has authority over you.



Smash up the world.

Smash up the people who tell you what to do. Smash up the person who tries to intimidate you. Smash them up. Smash up their ideals. Smash up their beliefs. Smash up their authority.

You have to stir up trouble if you want to achieve anything or be your own person. In reality, when you think, talk, and act like a free individual, trouble will come your way whether you want it or not because it’s in the nature of slaves to despise the free.

Young people like you are constantly being blamed for the ills of society; how can this be? You didn’t make this society, adults did; if there are any problems they are to blame. So you might as well ignore them and their concerns. The World is yours now whether they like it or not.


\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*



Your mental attitude is the most important possession you will ever own – more important than the strength of your biceps, the size of your winky or how much money you have in your bank account.  
A weak, fearful and timid attitude means you’ll be at the mercy of any tom, dick or harry\(iet\).  
Your attitude determines whether you’ll be a victim or a success.



The child is born a genius but by the time it gets to middle-age it has become a complete idiot.  
Since you were born, adults and teachers have been filling your head with their ideas – what to think, what to like and how to live. The problem is this - if you follow advice from a slave you’ll become a slave. Unless you’re some sort of retard you wouldn’t deliberately choose to become a slave, but it happens in slow motion without you noticing. The whole system is set up so that you’ll believe there is

no other way – and slowly, slowly, you’ll start to believe the system is actually good for you; your brainwashing is then complete.



When you allow people to control and determine your life, you just become a performing flea. Go to your nearest railway station at rush hour; you’ll see the performing fleas going to work - every morning going through the same routine; collecting in their little groups on the same spot of the same platform, waiting for the train to deliver them to their jobs – a sort of living hell.



And they tell you slavery is history?



One of the most exhilarating opening five minutes of any film is from ‘ *28 Weeks* *Later*’. The main character, Don, is running for his life from flesh-eating zombies that have broken into the house where he is hiding out. The zombies kill all the occupants, but he manages to escape by jumping into the front garden from an upstairs bedroom window. He pelts across a field – the zombies are new-skool fuckers in that they’re fast like track sprinters. Luckily, just before he’s about to get his brains eaten, he comes across a speedboat moored on a nearby river and manages to get away; the boat’s propeller mashing up a few Z’s in the process.

The thing about zombies is that they don’t just kill you – you die, then you become one of them. In the same way, adults say they’re educating you and showing you how to get on in life – but they’re not, they’re just trying to turn you into mini-versions of themselves. Just like the zombies, they are doing their best to destroy your brain and obliterate your identity.





## Discover different worlds without a spaceship 



**TASK** - Rather than sleep, stay up all night. Don’t go to bed. At 1am leave your house and wander the streets. Do this with mates or on your own, and wear something dark so you’ll blend into the background. Things you never notice during the day will show themselves; new sights, new sounds, different people, perhaps some weird shit.

Observe the movements and shenanigans of the cat, the fox, the rat, the tramp and the drunk. Take note of the shady characters and individuals who inhabit the nocturnal world. This is the realm of the vampire, the werewolf, and all the other dark entities of horror stories. Whilst these entities only exist in imagination, the night can still be an eerie and dangerous place. Climb over walls, wander downs alleys and investigate empty buildings - you’ll discover places previously unknown to you.

If you’re in the city. go to the ‘red-light’ district and check out what’s going on. Stay out ‘til dawn and see how things change - cars start intruding on the night, council sweepers start appearing, the birds start singing, and the zombie nation begins its commute to work.



You won’t find this in your school’s curriculum, yet it’s outside your front door, one-third of the day you don’t really know about. They tell you to get a good night’s sleep so you’ll be fresh for class; do the opposite – sleep at school and investigate the night.



*Note*: It may be that you’ll be stopped by the cops in a patrol car, “Wot you up to lads? Why are you out at this time? Shouldn’t you be in bed? Where you going?

Where d’you live? Wot’s in your pockets?” Just say you’re going for a stroll - there’s no law against that is there?

As soon as you start doing your own thing, even like going for a walk at night, you get hassled. All ‘normal’ people should be tucked up in bed.



There are many different worlds. Your upbringing conditions you to exist in only one

- the 9 to 5 world of work and all the usual shit. Your parents don’t show you there are other ways of living, neither do your teachers – it’s almost as if they’re keeping you ignorant on purpose.



*Here’s what to do*: Stop whatever you’re doing for one week and start to investigate other worlds. Do things you don’t normally do and visit places you don’t normally visit. Speak to people you wouldn’t normally speak to. You’ll notice that the lives of some people are completely different to yours and far different to the mainstream.





## Don’t leave your education to school 



Most teachers are teaching you garbage – don’t listen to them. Many of the things they say are important are *not* important and many things they say are not important or don’t even talk about, *are* important - some very important. Look at the successful people you know, what are they expert at?



People say that school prepares you for life in the big, wide world – it does nothing of the sort. Your teachers tell you this, but look at them, they have no money; they can barely afford the rent for their crap accommodation. How are they able to advise you about being successful in life? In a way they can’t be blamed, they just don’t know any different. Even though the world has endless possibilities and opportunities, they have been conditioned by their background to believe their way is the best way –

ignore them; leave them to their version of the world.



Teachers and other goons will come up with examples of individuals who have done well by education; passed exams, went to university, got good jobs and so on - what they don’t speak about are the untold thousands who haven’t benefited from this in any way. And they’ll ignore the people you look up to who have done it by completely different means. This is not saying that knowledge is not necessary, of course it is, but there is classroom knowledge and *real world* knowledge, the sort that will help you in your life. Furthermore, school is mostly teaching you to rely on

someone else to feed you, clothe you and house you. It’s telling you that you have to become “more employable” by learning lots of unnecessary facts and useless shit.



Your school also tells you that you need to work hard to achieve success; well, take a walk down any high street and you’ll see many hard-working people collecting rubbish, delivering the post, driving buses, working in shops and sweeping the streets \(there’s nothing wrong with that if that’s what you want, but if you’ve got half a brain it shouldn’t be what you want\). Then there are the jokers who work in offices, living the same routine everyday – hardly better than brain-dead zombies. The idea that you’ll get somewhere *just* by “working hard” is the biggest lie of all. Many millions of people work very hard yet have got nowhere in life. You can see the evidence of that all around you

****

The problem with school is that it forces kids to learn stuff they hate or are no good at; for some reason this is backed up by most parents.



There is absolutely no reason to do stuff that you don’t like doing. Decide what is important at school and do that. If you love history immerse yourself in it. If you hate geography do the bare minimum, or better still, drop it completely. From now on, do what you’re interested in – not what others say you should be interested in. Some teachers and educators will say there’s no need to learn Latin as it’s not needed in today’s world. Well, if it’s interesting to you, learn it. That’s good enough. So, this is not saying that you shouldn’t do anything as that won’t get you anywhere – just follow what you want and ignore anything else.



We are constantly being told that knowledge is power and that education is the passport to a better career, more opportunity, and so on – if you live in a poor African village that’s true but here it’s not. In modern societies, the belief that more education, more information and more knowledge guarantee a *better life* is completely untrue.

If you are having difficulty at school, don’t worry – the real education is outside school. Furthermore, if you hate school there’s nothing wrong with you, it’s a perfectly natural reaction to being caged.



Being locked inside the same building five days a week, doing what you’re told with losers your own age, is good for you? People who believe that will believe anything.





## Dynamic Endurance 



**TASK – **find a half-mile \(800m\) route in your neighbourhood – don’t have any warm up, just go outside and start running; fast as you can…don’t stop, keep going. When your breathing gets difficult or your legs start feeling heavy, back off for a few





seconds then speed up again. When you’ve finished wait five minutes then repeat. Do this twice a week for 6 weeks - by then you’ll virtually be able to sprint all the way.

In the US they have a horse called a Quarter Horse, it’s bred specifically to sprint distances from 100m to 800m - some have been clocked at 55mph \(88 km/h\) which isn’t much slower than a cheetah. They can cover 400m in 20seconds and 800m in less than a minute. If you train like a Quarter Horse you will develop the sort of fitness that you need to run from the Law - the majority of coppers have eaten far too many doughnuts to be able to keep up with that. ** **

****

## You Them 

****

****

****

****

If you want you can extend the distance to ¾ or even 1 mile – but no further\! You want a strong, athletic, and dynamic body – not the fragile ‘fitness’ of a marathon runner. Long distance running will make you weedy and skinny, and in the process, kill any natural speed you have. Endurance should *always* be built in at a fast or dynamic pace.





*Note*: Why no warm-up? Well, in what real-life situation would you be able to do a warm-up? You may be running for your life. There’s a gang wanting to give you a beating or the fuzz are chasing you – “Oh, excuse me, would you mind giving me a few minutes to do a warm-up?”



It’s said that a horse can be pushed until it runs itself to death; don’t know how it dies, perhaps it’s heart explodes, You can run a ½ mile so fast that you’ll think your chest is going to burst – don’t worry, it won’t. What *will* happen is that your physiology will undergo such a remarkable transformation that you’ll turn into the human equivalent of a Quarter Horse.



*Some other sessions to try* \(on track, road or grass\): 1/ Sprint 200m \(or 30secs\) as fast as you can - rest for three minutes and repeat.

Session is finished when you have completed six runs.



2/ Run 400m \(or 70secs\) non-stop - rest for five minutes. Repeat three times.



3/ Run 300m fast \(or 45secs\) - rest for 90 seconds then sprint 150m \(around 20secs\).

Rest for five minutes. Repeat twice.



4/ Find a reasonably steep hill. Run up for 150m. Slowly walk down. The session is over when you’ve completed six runs.



Note: This type of training is called ‘Interval Training’ - where you run a certain distance, rest and repeat. There are many variations you can try, the distances can be anywhere from 60 to 1000m with recoveries \(rest\) from 30secs to 10mins, or more.



**TASK** – You may have heard of high knees, basically ‘running on the spot’. The target here is to do 300 in one go. Make sure the top of your thighs reach parallel to the ground. This is pretty tough, after a while your upper legs will begin to feel heavy, but keep going and make sure you are bringing your knees up as high as you can.

Your posture should be upright throughout, not leaning back, and keep on the balls of your feet. If you can’t do the full amount straight away split it into two sets \(with a minute or two between each set\). As you progress you’ll be able to do more in the first set until you can complete the whole 300. Once you’ve achieved this try using some two-kilogram ankle weights, they don’t cost much, and work up to 300 reps again. Do this twice a week together with your interval training.

* *

*Additional task*: Every two months complete one thousand high knees – then take a week off from *all* exercise. The stimulus to your system will force your body to adapt to a higher level. You can split up the full amount into any number of sets as long as you complete the total.



High knees and interval training are very demanding and severely tax the lower limbs; furthermore the heart, lungs, and circulatory system are challenged well beyond the regular demands of long distance or ‘aerobic’ training. The burn you feel in your muscles during this type of exercise is caused by the build up of lactic acid \(specifically, hydrogen ions\) - known as ‘acidosis’. Lactic acid is produced because the energetic demands of the exercise can’t be totally covered by the amount of oxygen you breathe in, so some of the energy has to be produced anaerobically \(without oxygen\) – lactic acid is the by-product of this anaerobic process. The ability to tolerate acidosis, physiologically and psychologically, is the first thing older people lose. Make it your friend.





## The Educated Idiot 



In many ways the more education you get the more of an idiot you become. Here’s an example: A person flips a coin ninety-nine times in a row, each time it’s a head; what is the probability that the hundredth flip will be a tail? Someone clueless in maths would most likely say zero or “hardly any chance”. Conversely, someone who is good at maths would answer 50/50, i.e. there’s an equal likelihood of heads or tails. At school that answer would be right, as each flip of the coin is unaffected by previous flips; in the real world however, that answer would make you a sucker. The right answer is zero. The ‘clueless’ person was right. Think about it; the likelihood of someone throwing ninety-nine heads in a row is a zillion to one – you are being conned. The coin is loaded.

Ask an adult, they usually get this wrong – ask a ten or eleven year old, they’ll get it right. Most kids on the street will realise straight away they are being conned.



You are not taught to think at school, that is not the aim of academic education. You are spoon-fed information so you can pass exams in subjects educationists have decided are for your benefit. They decide the subjects and they decide the questions.

All education is doing is telling you what you need to know so you can answer the questions they’ve set.

If you program a robot to make a cup of tea, it won’t be able to bake a cake. If you are programmed in a certain way at school, you lose the ability to think in other ways.



Here is another question that you might have difficulty answering, even though it’s straightforward if you have a clear head.

There are two cups, one filled with black tea \(no milk\), the other just milk. Take a teaspoon of milk from the second cup and stir it into the black tea. Now take a teaspoon of liquid from that cup and stir it into the cup with the milk.



Q: Is there more milk in the black tea cup than tea in the milk cup?



The more maths you’ve been taught at school the less chance you’ll be able to answer.

This is because your school teaches you maths in a way which makes you unable to understand numbers. They’ve messed up your mind.



This is how people become educated idiots – they learn ‘facts’, statistics, dates, geography, history, biology, etc. Unknown to them, most of the facts are untrue, only partly true or completely irrelevant. However, the more exams they pass and the more certificates they get, the more they believe they know what they’re talking about. If *you* want to become an educated idiot believe everything you learn at school or university.



The next time someone boasts how intelligent they are because they’ve passed loads of exams – feel sorry for the idiot…or knock their head off. That will be a new lesson for them.





## Become unemployable 



If you tell most adults you don’t want a job they will react like you said their baby has a face like a camel’s arse. Try it out and see for yourself. It’s pretty funny how predictable and brainwashed people are.

These morons are shallower than a puddle of cat’s piss; they’re outraged because

“you’re a lazy, good-for-nothing waste of space with a bad attitude”. Apparently, it’s your duty to “contribute to society” \#suckmydick



Shit-for-brains will tell you that wearing a paper hat and working for Tesco is better than nothing. Shit-for-brains cousin will tell you “there’s pride in work.” Shit-for-brains mum will say “what makes you think you’re so special?” Advice: shift-delete these idiots from your life - being surrounded by ‘shit-for-brains’ will turn *your* brains to shit.

You do eleven years at school so you can wear a paper hat? Fuck that. Most jobs you’ll be wearing a ‘paper hat’ of some sort - a tie, a suit, a uniform or some other crap which shows that someone owns you. You see those poor suckers in supermarkets? Forced to wear flashing reindeer antlers at Christmas - where’s the pride in that?

People who base their self-pride on being employed are the sort of idiots who die six months after they’ve retired; their minds are so undeveloped they have nothing to live for.





If you’re ever in the unfortunate position of having a job make sure it’s only temporary; if you carry on with it you’ll be trapped like a fly in a spider’s web. It is far more satisfying refusing a job than accepting one. Always work on your own project or idea – music, training, acting, dancing, business, crime, travel, sport, writing, rearing goats or building a space rocket.

If you’re in a job now, think seriously about what you’re doing – you’ll likely find that it’s pointless. If you do pointless things you’ll become a pointless person.



Being ‘unemployable’ means that you’re allergic to taking orders, as any real man should be. Develop self-reliance and decide your own direction in life. Once you’ve tasted freedom the world of work feels like slavery.





## Survive without money 



This is a disconcerting test. Disconcerting because it holds a mirror up to your own bullshit about how ‘honest’ you think you are.



Survive without money for two weeks. That doesn’t sound like much does it? But I mean have nothing except your accommodation. Where do you get food from?

Perhaps you’ll decide not to eat for two weeks – not likely. Would you steal food?

Would you shoplift? Would you eat other peoples’ leftovers? Perhaps you would scavenge from supermarket skips or thrown away food from street markets?

When the shit gets tough you may be surprised at what you would do to survive. You may convince yourself it’s only a temporary situation, so you have to break some rules to get you through…but there’s no such thing as a temporary crime is there?

When you know your dark side, the things you would do or consider doing when the going gets seriously tough, you become less concerned about other peoples’ deficits.



All notions of civilization fall away when survival is at stake. Don’t listen to comfortable people who say, “I would never do that” – they are bullshitters.

Circumstances make people do all sorts of unholy things. Try and avoid being in a situation where you have to do something awful to survive - work on something better. But when things are hard, you have to do what you can to get through. That’s the harsh reality. Accept it and understand you’re not perfect, no one is.

Don’t be hard on yourself for not being perfect, but you should be hard on yourself for being a weak, whiney, pathetic victim – the universe hates weaklings, evolution gets rid of them.





## Somatotype 



Somatotype refers to the build or physical structure of a person \( *soma* = Greek for *body*\). There are three main classifications: Ectomorph, Mesomorph and Endomorph.



****

****

****

****

**Ectomorph**: Long and thin muscles/limbs; appearance is slim or skinny. Ectomorphs find it hard to put on muscle and are resistant to putting on fat. They make good endurance athletes, rock-climbers, high jumpers and light-weight boxers or martial artists. The incomparable Bruce Lee was an ectomorph – if you’ve never heard of Bruce Lee, where you at?



**Mesomorph**: Characterised by an athletic and muscular physique. Mesomorphs build muscle easily. They make good all-round athletes, being fast, strong and lean.



**Endomorph**: The biggest of the three somatotypes. The endomorph has a heavy bone structure and a predisposition to accumulate fat. However, underneath the fat is usually plenty of muscle. Well trained endomorphs make good weight-lifters, shot-putters and all types of strength athletes.





## Ectomorph 

## Mesomorph 

## Endomorph 





Bone Structure

Light

Medium

Heavy

Physique

Thin

Athletic

thick-set

Absolute Strength

Poor

very good

very good

Relative Strength

Good

very good

Poor

Endurance

very good

Good

Poor

Agility

very good

very good

Poor

Top Speed

Good

very good

Poor





Many people are a mix of two or even all three types.



It may look like the mesomorph has the main advantages but whether something is an advantage is context dependent.



**Ecto** – Agile and quick; can run rings round an opponent making them look foolish and lumbering. Can run and run. Has the sting of a mosquito; cannot be caught.



**Meso** – Athletic and gymnastic; resilient and durable. All-rounders.

****

**Endo** – The strongest of the lot; has the potential to develop crushing strength. The destructive power of a tank.



There’s a saying that you can’t turn a carthorse into a race horse; whilst this is mostly true, it is possible to make the carthorse *faster*. The ectomorph can train to run faster than most mesomorphs, and the endomorph can make themselves as lean as any ectomorph. So don’t worry if you’re “naturally” this or that. Further, in the real world there are many scenarios, options, challenges and opportunities - be aware of specific natural limitations or advantages but life is too multifaceted to argue that these alone determine your success in life.





## Mental strength and fearlessness 



There are many supposedly strong individuals who are psychologically weak. You may know some. Their minds are fragile. They cry and moan because their girlfriend left them or their pet chinchilla got accidently flushed down the toilet. More importantly, they are unreliable in a crisis, disappearing when the going gets tough –

these people are worse than your biggest enemy; they will always let you down, undermining your plans and efforts. They are a form of cancer – get rid of them.



*Physical strength without psychological strength is virtually useless, like an elephant* *being scared of a mouse. *



If you * * are mentally weak and afraid, no matter what ‘weapons’ you may have you will be firing blanks – your strengths will fall short at critical times. If you’re scared of physical or psychological pain you will never, ever, overcome your weaknesses.

You know what you’re scared of. You know when you run from danger. The danger can be real or in your head; talking in front of a group or facing up to someone bigger than you.

The woodcutter knows that the strongest tree comes from the edge of the wood that has been battered by the wind. This is the same for you. To become tough you have to open yourself up to frightening situations so that over time your fears decrease, until eventually they become nothing. If you can’t find any frightening or challenging situations * you and your friends should go out of your way to create some. *



The Japanese Samurai warriors had a way of dealing with fear…



In ‘ *Hagakure: The book of the Samurai*’, by Yamamoto Tsunetomo - The Master advises the student Samurai thus, “Meditation on inevitable death should be performed daily when one’s body and mind are at peace, one should meditate upon being ripped apart by arrows, rifles, spears and swords, being carried away by surging waves, being thrown into the midst of a great fire, being struck by lightning, being shaken to death by a great earthquake, falling from thousand-foot cliffs, dying of disease or committing seppuku at the death of one’s master. And every day without fail one should consider himself dead”.



*Note*: ‘Seppuku’ is ritual suicide by cutting your stomach open.



The Samurai master is saying to his students that the way to become fearless is to think yourself dead already – once you’re no longer fear death or physical harm, you are scared of no one. The only way that someone can dominate you is if you are in fear of them or of the consequences of what they can do. If you are ‘already dead’ in your mind you become impervious to threats or potentially frightening situations.

Once you’ve forged your body and mind to cope with the demands of the Street, when someone tries to push you around you will be prepared - they will regret it.



Warning: You should be pragmatic and not suicidally heroic…there are some situations that even a Gorilla would have to escape from – when you’re outnumbered you may have to run, climb, jump or disappear into the background…“now you see me, now you don’t”. Use your brain - there is no shame in running or backing down when all the odds are against you. That isn’t fear, that’s commonsense.



**CHALLENGE - **Go with a friend or group of friends to your local high street on a shopping day. Whilst everyone is walking around this way and that, your aim is to walk in an absolute straight line down the middle of the pavement for at least 100metres. Your mates have to watch to make sure you don’t deviate. After you’ve done this it is their turn. This is a surprisingly tough challenge - you will come under intense pressure to get out of the way of some people. People will mutter under their breath, some might call you names, some may even threaten you – no matter, keep your resolve. Most people will fail this test first time and some will always fail. If you mess up the first time have another go until you have the psychological fortitude to complete it properly. If you’re fearless you’ll be able to do it. You may need your friends if any trouble flares up.



*Bonus* – this is hilarious to watch.



Fearlessness and mental strength are more important than confidence. You can’t be confident at everything, that’s impossible, but you can have the guts to try. In any endeavour there comes a point when your confidence may desert you, don’t worry about this, it shows you have reached the edge of your comfort zone – this is the

territory that *every* successful individual or warrior inhabits. There is no exception to this. Whatever path you decide to follow, if you take it seriously you will repeatedly hit the outer boundaries of what you can cope with. This is where your true toughness is tested. No book can give you this – you have to face it for yourself in the real world.





## Obliteration 



Mass control requires the obliteration of your identity. Whether it’s society, religion or some other nonsense, either they control you by force \(which creates resistance\) or more effectively, they control you by your consent. As soon as you don’t consent you become an apostate, and apostates are hated by everyone including the people who are still zombies.



**Try this test**: Live with people who work nine to five. Wake up after they’ve left for work. Be in before they get home from work. Go out to parties during the week. Get up early on a Sunday. Go to the gym on a Tuesday mid-morning. Stay up late during the week. Basically, have a different timetable to them. Even though you may be perfectly nice and pay your way, they will notice you are not like them, not stuck to their schedules. As sure as a bear shits in the woods they will begin to hate you. See for yourself. Slaves detest the free.



There’s only one certain thing in life – your death. Death is your complete obliteration. You’ll only remain in memory, or maybe if you’re very lucky, in some sort of legacy. Eventually even the people who knew or loved you will die – so that even the memory of you will be erased. So what’s the point of being obliterated *before you die*? Your consent and subservience to everything that society expects of you is the obliteration of your independence and personal identity.



As soon as you start school your conditioning and entrapment begins. Then when you leave school your conditioning continues, until you end up like all the other idiots commuting to work. Most middle-aged working people aren’t happy with their lives, many aren’t even happy with their long-term relationships – they are trapped.

To escape this you need to become a one-man-army, a force of nature. Smash things up, create havoc, destroy things, destroy the old you, get used to hardship; endure the feast and famine. You will need to become ‘insane’. You’ll also need to grow a force-field around you to shield you from the people and forces who want to destroy your ambition and individuality.



You’ll make loads of mistakes…some of which may have permanent psychological effects - some good, some bad. Ignore the bullshit entrepreneur books about failing, falling, picking yourself up and continuing. When people fail, they usually take

people down with them – some may be friends, associates or relatives. This is the hardest part, there are hardly any clean failures, they’re messy.



But you have to try, because what awaits you is death and the death of all your loved ones. Your obliteration is certain. But your obliteration before your death is up to you.





## Out of work in summertime 



Being unemployed with your mates in summertime is great - whilst everyone else is cooped up at work you’re as free as a bird.



The city in summer is an incredible place to be, full of possibilities.



A fraction of the things you can do:



- Cycle, skate, and discover the city with your mates

- Swim in the rivers/canals/lakes

- Find a wall and paint a mural

- Do circuit training outdoors

- Devise challenges and tests of strength and courage

- Go to as many parties as possible

- Chill out in parks and green spaces.

- Go to the coast in your mate’s car \(or avoid the ticket inspector on the train\)

- If you’re that way inclined, in most cities the galleries and museums are free.

- Create videos with your mates and post on the Internet

- Turn your gang into a business

- Find your nearest athletics track and do the Beer-Mile challenge

- Set up some sort of event - music, sport, dance, etc

- Construct a ‘boat’ out of materials you can find, and float down the river

- Shoot a film

- Cause mayhem



Resist the pressure to find work; the answer to doing nothing is not “getting a job”, that is pure slave mentality. It may well be that you have time to kill but no money to spend, so you’re going to have to be creative. A tough person isn’t crushed by having no money, it motivates them – go out and get it, earn it, make it, print it, win it; anything\! Use your imagination.



Make the most of the summer you have. Enjoy yourself. At the same time you can keep your eyes open for money making opportunities…they’re all around.



\[Beer-Mile Challenge: On a standard 400m athletics track - at the start line, drink a pint of beer then run one lap; on completion of the first lap drink another pint of beer

and then run a second lap. Do this until you have completed four laps and drunk four pints of beer. Cans of beer, lager or cider can be used instead of pints. Time how long it takes to complete and compare with your friends\]





## Brotherhood



There may be times when you and your brothers have your backs against the wall.

You are overrun with no escape, in which case you will have to fight like demons.

Your inevitable war wounds will be a badges of honour and your scars the sign of a fighter. Over time you’ll get to know whom you can rely upon when trouble comes calling. They’ll have earned their stripes and your trust - they are your army.

The Mafia have a Code of Honour called *Omertà* which implies that its members must never, ever, cooperate with the police, even when one of them has been a victim of a crime. A person should avoid interfering in the business of others, and absolutely must not inform the authorities of a crime under any circumstances - though if justified he may personally avenge an attack on himself or on his family by Vendetta.

Even if somebody is convicted of a crime he has not committed, he is supposed to serve the sentence without giving the police any information about the real criminal, even if that criminal has nothing to do with the Mafia. It is deeply demeaning and shameful to betray even one's deadliest enemy to the police. Within Mafia culture, breaking Omertà is punishable by death.



The State and the police say you shouldn’t sort things out for yourself, but the real street warrior doesn’t listen to that shit – sort out your own problems. Be good to people who support you, ignore people who have nothing to do with you and deal with people who are working against you.

You must do anything for your brothers; if one is in need, no matter what you’re doing and no matter what time of day, you must drop everything to help him. He would do the same for you. A gang, business or enterprise cannot survive without loyalty and solidarity.



One way society tries to control you is to separate you from your friends and undermine your support; but the strength of ten loyal brothers who would die for each other is magnified ten times. Like the Hydra of Greek mythology - when one head is severed two more grow in its place.



**TASK** - Get together with your mates and discuss some sort of project or scheme that you can start - music, sport, art, money…anything. It can be a completely new idea or something you’ve seen others do. Draw up a plan and decide who does what based on individual strengths and talents. Utilise the resources you can find. Don’t worry about small mistakes, they can be ironed out as you go along. Don’t tell anyone outside the group what you’re doing unless it is helps you in your aims. With the power of five or ten friends you’ll be surprised at what you can achieve.

Don’t stop there. Carry on. You’ll find that your life will start to diverge from the masses who go about their lives with their heads in the sand.



In creating something special there’ll be challenges you will have to overcome, some seemingly insurmountable; this is when a strong network of loyal and reliable friends comes into its own. *Always* stick by your brotherhood.





## Asteroid threat and you 



Draw the curtains, turn off any noise and switch off the lights. Sit very still - don’t move. Can you feel it? Can you sense something? The Earth is traveling through space at 20,000mph – that’s twenty-six times the speed of sound. Our planet is spinning on its axis as it revolves around the Sun, and our solar system is travelling through the Milky Way which is speeding through the Universe. This has been the case for billions of years. All this is happening without anyone noticing or thinking about it.



Here’s the thing: In the grand scheme of space and time you’re nothing. In essence, your life is meaningless so it’s up to you to *give it some meaning*. Don’t spend your life being a soft, weak, stupid, pathetic coward, afraid to do this, too scared to do that.

At any moment an asteroid could collide with Earth – you could be obliterated at any time...the *whole* planet could be smashed to pieces. Will God or any other devine being give a shit about you? Of course not. The same way you don’t give a damn about the life of an ant.



**TEST** – For the next two weeks, if you’re always good...be bad; and if you’re always bad…be good. Being the opposite of how you normally are is a great way to become mentally strong and open up new experiences and opportunities. All weak people are stuck in the same old habits, unable to break out of behaviours and beliefs which makes them fools. Many older people are experts at being fools in this sense, their brains are fossilised.

Rather than thoughtlessly acting on impulse - curb your instincts, control your actions and do the opposite. This is not saying that the way you are now is wrong, just that you need to be aware of the possible limitations in the way you think and act.



*For the goody-two-shoes* - the reason you are good isn’t just that you’ve been “raised properly” and have morals; it’s because you are scared of acting bad. You are fearful of the consequences of acting bad and you don’t have the confidence to face confrontation - you are timid. You have thought bad things but you don’t have the courage to carry them out. You may convince yourself that logic and reason stop you from doing bad things, but that’s just an excuse covering up your fear. Now is the time to stop using your niceness as a mask and do what you feel inside. Be a man.



*For the badass -* you are scared of being nice through fear of people thinking it’s a weakness. So you act tough. Further, you may be paranoid that everyone is down on you on purpose – which can’t possibly be true.

If you’re bad because you “like being bad” you will ultimately become a victim of your own foolishness and limited thinking. There are times to be bad and there are times to be good – recognize the difference and start to control your destiny. You never get time back, so start now.





## Unleash the beast 



Michelangelo** **di * * Lodovico * * Buonarroti Simoni** **was a 16th century Italian sculptor, painter, architect and poet. Known simply as Michelangelo, many consider him one of the greatest artists to have ever lived. He had something interesting to say about making a sculpture - he said that when he was carving a huge piece of marble he was only revealing what was already inside, the statue was already there, waiting to be uncovered. This is the case for you as well. Inside you there’s an atomic force - a force of Nature. It is up to you to let it out before it dies, as it has with many of the older people around you. It’s the genie in the bottle. If you harness it for your own benefit you will become virtually unstoppable.

You may think this force only exists in atomic bombs and nuclear power stations, when in fact it exists in everything. From the tiniest microorganisms under your feet to giant stars bigger than our entire solar system, everything has this force. All of the people who have utilised its raw energy to the max have become great leaders, great criminals, great minds; great athletes, great warriors – individuals who have shaped the history of the world. This is the ‘Beast’ waiting to be unleashed.

People are doing their best to stop you from developing it because they are scared of it. Developed to its fullest extent it is fucking fearsome. It doesn’t care about good, bad, or any place in-between. Love, co-operation, empathy, caring for the weak and all the things a civilised society goes on about - to atomic force all that is bullshit, it can destroy it in a second. It could \(and will eventually\) smash up the world without hesitation.



Albert * * Einstein, the famous theoretical physicist, showed that a single atom has enough energy to set off an unstoppable chain reaction. If you tap into your innate energy you could use it to create something awesome, something special…something which takes you to a level you would have thought unobtainable.



How to start;



**Face your fears**. Do the things you normally shy away from. *Unleashing the beast* means that your mind has to become like tempered steel - that won’t happen if you’re timid like a mouse.



**Don’t be scared of pain**. To get stronger and tougher you have to embrace the idea of pain. Get someone to punch you in the face, take your licks. Pain is a good thing in that it tells you to take your hand out of a flame; fear of pain, however, becomes a self-limitation, an excuse not to attempt something. This is what you have to overcome.



**Eliminate negative people:** If you want to build an empire you need constructive ideas and thoughts - there should be no room for purely negative and cynical individuals. Negative people love spreading their negativity around. They will discourage your efforts because they are losers, and losers don’t like winners. Look carefully at the people around you – if any are negative about you or your potential, drop them immediately from your life.



**Build your body**. There’s a saying that, “you can’t fire a cannonball from a canoe”.

No wild beast is soft and weak, how would it survive in the wild? Modern life weakens your body. If you want to be a warrior, build your body so it becomes like a battleship.



**Don’t take “no” for an answer**. If you need to do something important to advance your cause, don’t accept “no”. You’ve been told it’s polite to ask, and so it is, but you will never get anywhere if you listen to what people say you can or can’t do. Only at school do you get a gold star for being polite. Of course it’s good to get on with people, but don’t be a mug when obstacles are in your way.



**Don’t stop**. Why people are scared of a Pit Bull is that when it attacks it doesn’t stop.

The only way to make it stop is to practically kill it. Whatever quest *you* undertake, adopt a Pit Bull mentality. Don’t let anyone or anything stop you.



Inside you is a fearsome energy – unleash it, let it out; don’t hold back. Atomic force is the strongest force in the universe; use it to demolish all your fears, weaknesses and timidity. Build what you need to build and destroy what you need to destroy. Don’t care about good, bad, or any place in-between.





## Street Olympian 



Let me give you an example of the difference between sport and street: Some years ago, a top-level 800m runner, who was also a part-time policeman, came across a shop robbery in progress. The teenage perpetrator, on noticing that he’d been seen by a cop, did a runner. Now, you’d expect that our policemen would have been able to catch the young robber, but he couldn’t - no matter how he tried he just couldn’t collar the kid. In a competition on an athletics track the cop would easily outrun the teenager - a top 800m runner can run 400m in 45-47seconds, it’s *extremely* unlikely that any kid could match that. *Here’s the difference*…the street kid was a product of

his terrain; agile and clever like a wild-animal. He utilised his environment, jumping over walls, zipping up stairs, getting through gaps, under things and over things -

taking advantage of *his* surroundings. \[Note: If you take on someone in their terrain you are automatically at a disadvantage. It is easier to win if you are playing to your strengths and their weaknesses\]



Never confuse your ability in the sports arena, boxing-ring, club, track, gym and so on, with your ability on the street. Of course, there is a cross-over but it only goes so far. For instance, you may be a fast runner but what happens if someone gives you a dead-leg? Your ‘strength’ will be neutralised in an instant. If you abide by rules and codes in a street fight you will be taken by surprise by a jackal who has no rules or notions of fair play. In a real street fight, hit first, hit hard, stay on your feet and be prepared to run if you are overwhelmed.



It is not easy to define the qualities needed to be a Street Olympian - there are multiple scenarios that pan out on the street and life which will catch out even the most able person. However, being strong, athletic, brave, courageous and intelligent are qualities that can only be good. Being stupid, weak, afraid and cowardly are qualities which will result in you becoming a victim of the bully, boss, or any shit person or situation that passes your way.



Sport is a competition with rules. Life is a competition with no rules or different rules.

No doubt our cop thought he could catch anyone, but real life isn’t an athletics track.





## Us vs Them 



You are at war with forces that want to turn you into one of them. These forces are everywhere. They want you to become part of their Zombie Nation. They want you to lie down so they can walk all over you. Politicians try to control you by writing laws and enforcing them through the police and the legal system, which is ironic as the legal system is corrupt and the police-force has more criminals than the Mafia.





****

****

Be wary of anyone in a uniform, as soon as a person wears a uniform they start acting like a prick on a power trip. However, these people are weak, they get their strength from what they’re wearing – if you have no respect for their uniform, ignore what they say and fight back, their courage disappears like a fart in a hurricane.

Part of being a warrior is that you fight for your individual freedom and liberty. It is better to die free than to live the life of a slave.



There are so many rules and regulations that normal behaviour is against the law. If you’re in a street gang you may have minor skirmishes against gangs from other estates and areas, but open your eyes and you’ll see that your real enemy isn’t the kid in another postcode, that’s bullshit; your enemies are the forces that want to bleed you dry of your individuality and replace you with a robot. They want to knock you down, pick you up, and knock you down again until you can’t take it anymore, then you’ll do anything they say.

In an instant you and your brothers can reverse this by deciding how you want your lives to be, and having the courage to stand firm against others. When you live by your own codes and rules and don’t care what others think, you are free – but it’s inevitable you will clash with the individuals and authorities who think they have a right to tell you how you should live your life. If you are fucking them off you are doing something right. Relish the fight and enjoy the battle\! Your future is in your hands not theirs.



**CHALLENGE **- Every day for the next seven days find a stupid rule or regulation and go out of your way to break it. You will most likely find there are no consequences as there is no one around to enforce the rule; they are relying on you to do what you’re told even when they’re not present because they regard you as docile sheep.

If someone in a uniform tells you to take a hike, ignore them – they’re scared of you.

The more you break nonsensical rules and regulations the less timid you become and the less you fear the consequences of not doing what you’re told..



Responsible people will say that breaking rules for no reason is mindless, “the rules are there for your protection and benefit”. Reject this; they are the mindless, they are the clones who go along with everything they’re told to do. You are doing this *on* *purpose * to vaccinate yourself against zombiefication. This is far from mindless - it’s because you *have a mind* that you agitate and shake up their bullshit. Additionally, breaking a rule every now and then makes you feel alive.



*Remember* - when people in power have control over you in the big things, they’ll start trying to control you in the little things. Don’t let them.





## The Street Scientist 



Gang fit isn’t bothered with conventions or what’s considered normal - it’s not interested in what the majority are doing or think is right. As soon as you go along with the majority opinion *just* *because* *it is* the majority opinion, then your mind has stopped working. You really learn what’s what through experience, trial and error, and the application of your brain.



The reason why adults are more stupid than ever is they’ve been educated to accept the status quo; but the status quo hardly benefits them - they’re brain-dead. They live a life either oblivious to, or not bothered about what’s really going on around them, yet the stupid fuckers complain when the price of petrol goes up or when they have to pay more tax. In a way they deserve it, their brains have atrophied to the point where they resemble walnuts. If you want to be ‘comfortable’ stay with the status quo and steer clear of anything which necessitates discomfort – you won’t have too many problems. But you think that anyone who’s achieved anything of meaning has been comfortable doing it?



Your mind is like a muscle - it gets weaker if it’s not used.



The forces, laws, and dynamics which impact your life are just as important as the forces which keep the Earth revolving around the Sun. It benefits you to understand these forces. You have to break out of your conditioning and start experimenting. The street is your laboratory. Unlike the average Joe, the street scientist takes nothing at face value and questions what they’re being told.

There are some great books you can learn from written by philosophers, artists, famous leaders and warriors, so allow yourself to be ‘brainwashed’ by great people, not idiots.

Again, this is not something which is taught at school or university because, despite what they say, they are not teaching you to think for yourself. They are only teaching you to think within a subset of possible thought.



To the Street Scientist everything is an experiment and the world is full of possibilities. In the world of the Street Scientist a ‘non-entity’ like you can become a king.





## Fear 



People are employed because they’re scared. In fact, they’re terrified, and the longer they’re employed the more terrified they become. This is strange as people seem confident, happy and secure in their jobs. Some of these long-timers even think that because they’ve been employed for a long time, this gives them some sort of the right to tell you what to do; “I worked hard...blah, blah”; “Money doesn’t grow on trees…blah, blah”; “You’ve got to earn your way…blah, blah”. Don’t be taken in by this, beneath their shell of arrogance and know-it-all-ness is a deep pit of unacknowledged fear. Fear so deep it’s kept them a slave for years. Fear so deep that it has obliterated their childhood dreams and ambitions.



Being fearful means you can be manipulated and told what to do. Being fearful means you only live half a life. Some people stay scared all their lives; the fuckers might as well be dead.



No kid with a brain wants a job – they want to play the piano, be a dancer, drive a F1

racing car, be a scientist, a big criminal, or work with animals, *but they don’t want a* *job. * What you’re going to have to do is make your ambition your Plan A; a job should be your Plan B. Don’t bother telling your teachers, careers advisor, or even your parents, they might go along with you superficially in the way someone pets a poodle, but eventually they’ll say you’ve got to be realistic and find a job. Remember, most people don’t care about your personal happiness, only that you fit into a lifestyle which pleases them.



There’s nothing wrong with work, but work for free and make money from play.





## Don’t waste your time doing shit 



Anything you don’t want to do is the definition of shit. Pure and simple.



Problem: If you spend your days doing stuff you don’t want to do, your life will turn to shit. Look closely at the individuals who don’t like their jobs, you can sense depression in their appearance and attitude. It’s like they’re broadcasting “I’m a loser

- I hate my life”. *If you hate what you’re doing, stop doing it\! *

****

When you’re young, dopey adults tell you that if you want to get on in life you’ll have to “live in the real world” – what does that even mean? The real world as they know

it? Oh, the real world of paying bills and working the 9 to 5 for a living? The real world of passing your exams so you can get a good job? The real world of having to do all your shopping at the weekend along with all the other zombies? The real world of being depressed every Sunday because you’ve got work on Monday?

Don’t take any notice of what someone says about the real world; there are a million real worlds. Choose the one in your head and go towards it – that’s the only world that matters. The only delusion lies in believing it will be easy.

****

Many people spend their day doing stuff they *have to do* rather than things they *want* *to do*. You are young; you can see that doesn’t make sense. Adults are so brainwashed that they have lost the ability to think clearly; they really think that spending their entire working lives doing shit is somehow necessary.

Look at anyone who has become successful in life – did they get there by doing stuff they didn’t want to do? Of course not. So why listen to losers who say “be realistic, in life you have to do things you don’t want to do”. Why would ANYONE give advice like that? They’re sick.





## Super Strength 

****

Super-strength describes extreme strength by humans beyond what is believed to be normal. The most common examples are of people lifting cars to rescue a loved one or when people are in life or death situations.

In one case in Virginia in 2015 Eric Heffelmire was working in the family garage on a GMC pick-up truck when the jack propping up the car slipped and pinned him to the ground, with leaking petrol instantly catching fire. His 19yr old, 5ft 6in, 120lb, daughter, Charlotte immediately ran over and lifted the car off his shoulder before nearby propane tanks caught alight. Eric recalled; "I felt the weight shift, and I said,

'you almost got it,' and suddenly I'm pulled out…it was some crazy strength”.

In Colorado in 1995, a police officer arrived at a car accident where a Chevy had ended up on top of a baby girl and was sinking into mud. The officer lifted the car, and the mother pulled the girl out.



There are various theories as to how normal people can summon up crazy moments of strength during emergencies – mostly centred on adrenaline, dopamine and other hormones or neurotransmitters which mobilise the body for extreme functioning, whilst decreasing pain sensation and increasing single-point focus and tunnel-vision.

Gang Fit, however, isn’t really interested in theories - only experience, what works and the end effect. If normal people can momentarily become super-human, what primal, wild forces lie beneath our everyday lives?



Legendary strength coach Vladimir Zatsiorsky describes three levels of strength.



The highest is your *absolute strength*, which is the theoretical maximum that your muscle fibres, tendons, ligaments and bones can take. In theory, this can never be exceeded.



The lowest is your *maximal strength*, which is the maximum you could lift using conscious effort, in a gym or other controlled environment. According to Zatsiorsky, the maximal strength of most ordinary people is about two-thirds of their absolute strength. This means that for a person who can lift 200 kilos, 300 kilos is their frame's theoretical maximum.



Somewhere between maximal strength and absolute strength is a middle ground that appears when the body goes into competitive mode. The fight or flight response also appears when faced with the pressure of competing. Zatsiorsky has measured some athletes reaching as high as 92% of their body's absolute strength during the most intense competitions.



Examples of super-strength show we can generate physical or psychological forces far greater than we think we can. Even Zatsiorsky’s model doesn’t explain it. If you are young, disaffected, fucked-off, poor, weak, trapped, enslaved or generally dissatisfied with life, there is a fearsome primal force just below the surface. When you start tapping into it, your life changes. Don’t give a shit about anything else.





## Berserker 



This sounds ridiculous but it’s true – I read in a newspaper that a family’s pet cat went berserk. It went so wild that the entire family had to lock themselves in a bedroom. A pet cat\! Animals are dangerous not only because they have weapons such as claws, horns, teeth and hooves but also because once they blow a fuse they have nothing which holds them back. No feelings of remorse, compassion or guilt.

Who knows what drove the cat berserk? Maybe the final straw was its owners running out of catnip?



The English word berserk is derived from the Norse word *ber-serkr*, * * a term for a particular cohort of Viking warrior. ‘Ber-serk’ may mean ‘bear shirt’ or ‘bare-chested’, no one is quite sure. The berserkers were said to have fought like enraged wild animals, impervious to pain.

From Wikipedia – ‘It is proposed by some authors that the berserkers drew their power from the bear and were devoted to the bear-cult which was once widespread across the northern hemisphere. In battle, the berserkers were subject to fits of frenzy.

They would howl like wild beasts, foamed at the mouth, and gnawed the iron rim of their shields. According to belief, during these fits they were immune to steel and fire, and made great havoc in the ranks of the enemy. When the fever abated they were weak and tame’.



Who knows? Perhaps the fuckers were on drugs? Anyway, the point is that even when a pet cat goes berserk it becomes a beast.



There may be occasions in life when you are completely outnumbered with no hope of escape. The individuals may want to stomp on your head until your brains are splattered on the floor. You will have to summon up every ounce of primal rage to have any chance of staying alive.

The thing about berserkers is that nothing holds them back – they cause maximum damage without hesitation. Most people don’t want to physically harm other people, it goes against every fibre of who they are. That’s all well and good, but in times of war they will be smashed up by people who are prepared to harm, or even enjoy causing harm. So, normally you should be cool, but if necessary you should be prepared to fight fire with greater fire. Be prepared to cause damage. It’s not pretty, but your life may depend on it.



It may only be once in your life, but you will *have* *to* be prepared to fight like a berserker. There’s no point holding back against malevolently violent people.





## Create problems 



In a way, young people terrify adults. Not because they are terrifying, but because they represent the unknown and uncontrolled; an elemental force that is indifferent to adult values. They have an outlook and attitude which has withered in their elders.



Many teenagers are sick and tired of listening to the constant jabber about employment, careers, education, university, and so on. That is not really what they want. Adults, teachers and politicians are recommending this route, but the backdrop of wage-slavery, commuting, lack of money, plus the sheer dullness of most adults, shows to them this approach doesn’t work. Adding to their dissonance, they are bombarded with media images of wealth, music, celebrity, sports stars and success.



If *you* are young, disconnected from the mainstream, have ‘an attitude problem’, or are just fed up with the daily confirmation that life is failing to live up to your youthful imaginations, you need to start creating massive ‘problems’ for yourself.

Quit your job, drop half your friends, put yourself in frightening situations, leave your neighbourhood, whatever; because you only evolve and improve by having problems, challenges, and tests. This is why people from comfortable backgrounds, and who’ve had everything given to them on a plate, can’t teach you shit.

****

If your life has no challenges apart from dragging yourself out of bed to go to some mind-numbing job on a Monday morning, you need to purposely become ‘insane’ –

other people will think you’ve lost your marbles. All great people are a little insane in the sense that they have energy and visions beyond the normal zombie commuter.



Start creating problems as a life with no problems or extraordinary challenges means you’ll stay like a tiny half-human.





## Jump off a building 



Some time ago, whilst walking down a busy street in South London, I noticed a kid jump onto the pavement from the 1st floor balcony of a block of flats. It looked cool and no doubt saved him time in not having to use the stairs or the lift. Someone with weak legs would have crumpled. Can you imagine an old, fat or unfit individual doing this? They would have killed themselves.

The kid didn’t roll on landing to lessen the impact, he just used his legs as shock absorbers in a squatting action, then straightened up and walked off.



Develop and retain the ability to tolerate acute physical stress; this is what most adults have lost - they can no longer cope with shocks or extremes.



So what qualities do you need to be able to jump from a height? Strong legs of course, but also a strong back and core - an overall robust physique. Your legs need to be resilient enough to absorb the shock. It’s better to be lighter and strong rather than heavy. You need to be flexible - a stiff object which isn’t strong, snaps \(babies and young people can come out of bad tumbles virtually unscathed for this reason. Old age is the reverse; weak, inflexible and brittle\).



People are taught to dissipate the landing forces by rolling on landing, which is all well and good but not the point. The point is you should develop the *qualities* which enable you to jump off a building, take it in your stride, and come off unscathed.



Start off jumping from low walls, six feet high or so, and gradually work your way up; first on grass then on a hard surface. You’ll find out your psychological and physical limits.

Note: when you’re up high the ground seems further down than it actually is because your eye-level is five or more feet higher. Either crouch down on the wall to reduce the perceived height or get used to mentally discounting the extra ‘phantom’ height.





## Cowardice 



Looking and acting like a tough guy but failing to deliver when push comes to shove, makes you look like an idiot. Cowardice can’t be covered up, everyone will see it.

Being tough doesn’t mean that you win everything, that’s impossible – taking a few beatings yourself is part of street life; once you’ve taken some you get used to it –

they are a necessary part of your evolution as a warrior. Being strong isn’t about never being beaten, but not being afraid to commit when the going gets tough. At a low level, fearful people will be put off by someone who looks tough - so looking the part will make you come out tops with a minimum amount of effort. At another level however, looking tough will not be a deterrent to others…in fact it may attract those who want to pit themselves against you.



The ‘pain’ of being a coward lasts longer than the pain of a black-eye or a few bruises. Get this into your head – being tough isn’t about coming out on top all of the time. We all lose and we all fail, that is a completely normal part of life. What is tough is sticking to your principles and standing firm in the face of danger.



Note: Real violence \(not the average street scrap\) is *very* nasty, try and avoid it. Hit first, hit fast, hit hard, then get out. If you can’t you will have to fight like an animal.

It’s not nice, but you will have to be prepared to inflict damage or incapacitate the aggressor. You may still lose, but there is no true courage, bravery or heroism without risk.





## High Intensity Interval Training \(HIIT\) 



The clue is in the name, ‘intensity’ – if these sessions aren’t hard, you are doing them wrong. But the intensity is appropriate to distance or time in that when it’s maximal effort *over the session*. In other words, the earlier reps are sub-max \(only slightly, don’t be a chicken\), but as the session progresses each rep gets harder to achieve at the target pace. Over the session your heart rate, fatigue and willingness to live increases in a peaks and troughs or ‘rachet’ fashion.



\[Heart rate; acidosis, ‘fatigue’ as the session progresses\]





If you push yourself you should be DOA \(almost\) at the end of the final repetition.



Generally, a HIIT session involves acidosis/oxygen debt; 6 x 200m with 3 mins between doesn’t involve all-out sprinting but a high sub-max. Pure sprint sessions involve fast \(95% or higher of top speed\) short reps with long recoveries where there is no acidosis, or at least a good recovery between reps.



***Some sessions to try*** \(on track, road or grass\). These are running sessions, use your imagination to convert to cycling, rowing...your sport/activity.



1/ Sprint 200m \(or 30secs\) as fast as you can - rest for three minutes and repeat.

Session is finished when you have completed six runs



2/ Run 400m \(or 70secs\) non-stop - rest for five minutes. Repeat three times 3/ 400m - five times with 1 min between



3/ 300m fast \(or 45secs\) - rest for 90 seconds then sprint 150m \(around 20secs\). Rest for five minutes. Repeat twice



4/ 10 x 100m; 1 min between



5/ 18 x 60m; split into 3 sets. 1 min btwn reps; 8 min btwn sets 6/ 100m \(3mins recovery\); 150m \(4 mins\); 200m \(8mins\); 200 \(8mins\); 150m \(6mins\); 100m



7/ 600m x 3 \(8 mins btwn\)



8/ 8 x 300m; split into 2 sets. 4 mins btwn reps; 10 mins btwn sets



9/ 40m, 60m, 80m, 100m, 120m, 150m – full recovery btwn 10/ Find a reasonably steep hill. Run up for 150m. Slowly walk down \(3/4mins\). The session is over when you’ve completed six runs



11/ 100/150m hill – run up fast; jog for 15secs at the top \(on flat\) – sprint 100m.

Repeat four times.



Once you’ve done these you’ll realize the difference between jogging and hard work.

Jogging does naff all – only zombies waste time on it.





## Anger is an energy 



John McEnroe was a genius tennis player of the 1970s and 80s. He said the angrier he got the better he played. If he was losing he got angry. When a point went against him he got angry. When he believed the umpire had made a dodgy line call he got angry. When the crowd booed him he got angry.



People say it’s not good to get angry. Well, if your anger makes you do something stupid, which you’ll regret, then it’s negative. But if your anger spurs you on to achieve something ‘impossible’ then it’s positive.

In reality, *anger is neither positive nor negative, it is an energy. * It is fuel, it is nitro-glycerine. It has the ability to destroy or the ability to create. Even the destruction bit can be positive in that destroying something which shits on your life is positive.



People who are telling you not to get angry are trying to control you. It’s perfectly acceptable to be angry at being a weak, penniless zombie. It’s a good thing. You want to use any emotion or mindset which changes your situation and creates something massive. Changing your life is *the* most important thing you can do. It also enables you to help other people \(if that’s what you want\) in far more effective ways than if you’re weak with no power or resources.



1/ Being angry with yourself helps you change. The usual bullshit is to be proud of who you are – but if you’re an overweight pathetic slave who writes bad poetry, what have you got to be proud of? Be fucking angry, be very angry – don’t accept it. Why should you be proud of yourself if you’re a useless piece of crap and no good for anybody?

2/ Being angry with other people is good if they constantly bring negativity to your door. Be angry with them. Leave them behind. You won’t go to heaven just because you’re nice to jerks.



3/ Channel your anger \(not get rid of it\) and use it to propel you in the direction you really want. Use it as a deflective force-field to defend you from all the circumstances and situations that knob-heads and authorities use to try and rule you.





## Ritalin Boy 



I was at a school where almost half of the kids were on some sort of drug to calm them down - apparently they had Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder \(ADHD\), a term invented by expert fuckers who don’t realise it’s quite natural for some kids not to like being confined to a classroom, listening to a boring teacher.



Most of these kids were being given Ritalin \(prescribed by doctors with the approval of the kids parents\), the name for a drug which turns a normal exuberant kid into a mind-numbed zombie. One particular kid was given Ritalin every morning as soon as he arrived at school - so before lunch he was brain-dead zombie, as quiet as a mouse with no interaction, but after lunch once the drug had worn off he was very lively, chucking things around the classroom and not taking any notice of the teacher; basically having a laugh and not really learning anything.



Anyway, one summer the class he was in went on a week’s sailing and kayaking course on the River Thames; if you don’t know it, the Thames is a polluted and muddy river which meanders through London, cutting it in half.

Learning to sail a yacht is not a straightforward affair. How to adjust the sails, rudder and daggerboard with reference to the current, wind strength and direction, takes a while to pick up.



The main components of a simple yacht:





Guess who picked it up the quickest and became the most proficient at sailing after one week? You guessed it, ‘Ritalin Boy’. At the end of the week the sailing centre gave him a certificate for outstanding student. He outperformed the kids who were A grade at maths, A grade at science, and A grade at teacher’s pet. In a different environment Ritalin Boy became A grade.



If you judge a gorilla on how well it can swim it will be a failure all its life. The

‘experts’ in a society based on swimming will then classify the gorilla as having some sort of syndrome or disorder, and pump it full of drugs to fit in.



If you are like Ritalin Boy, don’t let the teachers denigrate you, don’t let society convince you that you are abnormal, and most of all *don’t* *take* *the* *fucking* *drugs*.



School is only trying to turn you into the sort of individual who does well at school.

Your real life starts when school ends.





## Off Grid 



**1**/ The answer to being trapped in the ‘rat race’ is not to be like Grizzly Adams and live off-grid. If you don’t know, ‘The Life and Times of Grizzly Adams’ is the story of a man who flees to the Californian wilderness \(after being wrongly accused of murder\) and has sex with a bear.

It’s seems idyllic to live out in the middle of nowhere, but it’s tougher than it looks and you’ll live an unnecessarily hard life if you completely drop out. Plus, the world is huge, full of incredible things to see and experience – you want to see it, no?



The real off grid is using or taking the parts of the grid you want, whilst disregarding the rest, in other words *not being trapped* in the grid; using it for your own ends.

Wherever you live all you need is a smart phone, a laptop and an internet connection -

with this you can potentially connect with billions of people and make money. When people do a Grizzly Adams these days, they take the internet with them, this gives them the best of both worlds; hyper-connected when they need it and isolated from society’s shit when they want it.



If you live in the City the opportunities are virtually unlimited, maybe you can’t see it because you’re blind to it, but it’s true. What you shouldn’t do is allow yourself to be caught up in the rat race, doing the 9 to 5 and turning into a moron. Don’t believe anyone, being a wage-slave is not a fulfilling life



When you have one bank account, one passport and one source of income you can be shut down by the State in an instant. You are at the mercy of the Law and the authorities. If you step out of line or say something nasty on social media they can control you or ‘starve you to death’. This is what happened to the indigenous Native Americans in the US; they relied on the American Buffalo \(Bison\) for food and clothing. Foreign fuckers arrived and proceeded to kill 100’s of millions of the Bison, literally starving the natives to death. They were decimated.



Have at least three bank accounts, have digital cash, cryptocurrency and hard cash.

Buy some gold, diamonds, land and other assets. If your parents are from another country see if you can apply for passport. Or live in another country and see if you can apply for a passport there. Some countries may give you a passport if you have a shit load of money.

This may seem far off to you at present, but all it is saying is that diversification gives you options in case of trouble. It will be difficult for someone to control you, cut off your source of income or savings, or stop you travelling by confiscating your passport.



This is using the vast network of the grid for your own ends - the only point of the Grid. You control it, it doesn’t control you.





## Human marshmallow 



No living creature in the history of the world has had a default setting of physical comfort. So, if all you want is physical comfort you are denying life. Older adults like to be comfortable, they avoid hard physical work; “It hurts\!” Slowly they become

softer and more fragile, less able to cope. If you’ve got your eyes open you’ve already seen that for yourself. It’s frightening.



Much of modern life is aimed at saving you energy whilst at the same time oversupplying you with energy in the form of calories. In the Wild, practically the reverse is the case. To get energy \(food\) you have to expend energy. Further, you may expend energy and not get any…for a while, or you may get some, just not enough.

This is an extremely important distinction, one you need to get into your brain * – every* *creature on the planet needs to ‘exercise’ to get food. The food isn’t delivered to them* *on a plate. *

Comfort and conserving energy certainly has its place, but modern life wants to turn you into a human marshmallow, with labour-saving devices and access to abundant food. It’s easy to be seduced into expending less and less effort in everyday life, so you need to fight against it because it’s everywhere.



## An anti-marshmallow routine for life: 

****

45% Resistance training ** **

45% Intervals \(short to long\)** **

1-2% Mega-challenges** **

8% Randomness



These percentages are *general* targets for the amount of energy or time you should spend in each area.



Included in the ‘randomness’ section is the idea of mini-challenges – basically, the everyday two-fingers up to the environment which is trying to slowly kill you by giving you too much comfort. Walking up escalators, taking the stairs instead of lifts, using push-doors not automatic ones, not taking the junk food and high-sugar freebies which are offered to you…on and on. You might think this isn’t important – but if you don’t want to end up like the marshmallows around you, you have to do the opposite of what they do.



Get used to high intensity training. Seek out stress - cold, heat, starvation, exhaustion and giant exercise sessions…get to know yourself. Run fast without stopping - your heart will be pumping so hard you’ll feel like it’s going to burst. Cycle downhill as fast as you can, almost out of control. How long can you keep your hand in a flame?

Test your limits, push your limits - then you can cope with the shit which normal people shy away from.



Settle for physical comfort when you’re in your coffin.





## “There is always tomorrow” 



No there isn’t



One day you’re going to die.

You don’t know when you’re going to die.

There are opportunities which may arise only once.



The idea that you can put off until tomorrow what you should attend to today has created more misery and regret than just about anything else. If you think like this you will never get anything done. Plans unrealised, goals never reached, ambitions unfulfilled.



Now is the time to assess yourself and the direction you are heading. What does it look like? We are always being told to be nice to ourselves, not to be too self-critical, after all “we’re only human”. Nothing can come from this. In this instance you *should* be harsh on yourself, don’t listen to your own bullshit. Be sick with yourself for always saying “I’ll start it tomorrow”. Your life should be a progression - you can’t progress if you always defer things; weeks turn to months, months turn to years. So, whatever ‘insane’ plans, incredible dreams or life transforming ideas you have, start them now. Don’t care what other people think and don’t be put off by the fear of failure.



“Begin with the end in mind” is the usual advice. We haven’t managed to cheat death yet - the ultimate end is that you will die. Everyone you know will die. Everything you know, everything you do, everyone you love; all your successes and all your mistakes will turn to dust. With this stark ending in mind what is the point of timidity, lack of confidence and fear? Stake your claim during your brief spell here. Live big, live gloriously, live well, because sooner or later it will all come to an end.



When we have an externally imposed deadline we sometimes surprise ourselves how much we get done, how focused we are, how much energy we have. The problem is that we have our own long-term goals and ambitions but they are open-ended with no deadlines. There is no tangible penalty for not achieving them. This is why you need to be tough on yourself. Create a psychological imperative because you really don’t have all the time in the world.



There is no way on Earth you will fulfill one iota of your potential if you have the attitude that there is always tomorrow. This is the only chance you get at life – don’t fuck it up.





## Food



In your quest for health and strength what you eat shouldn’t be ignored. You may think you can get away with eating muck but you can’t, your body will eventually turn to shit. Young people think they are immortal, impervious to the things that afflict older people, without seeming to comprehend that all older people were like them once.

This is something you *must* get into your walnut brain – if you don’t do anything thing different, you will end up like the older people around you. If that’s what you want, fine – end up a boring, pathetic twat with no energy.



You cannot be a strong independent person if your body is slowly decaying, so you need to look after it, not wait until the signs of ill-health start showing up. Meat, fish, eggs and vegetables should be the main elements of your diet along with starch foods such as potatoes and rice. If you’re going to the gym it’s ok to take a protein drink after your workout. If you get this right you can have some crap every now and then –

just don’t make the crap a big part of your diet



A teenage kid I know decided to change his diet; he swapped the usual junk in his lunchbox with fish, cheese and an apple, or something similar. Here’s what happened: He got ridiculed by his class mates, the morons who had crisps, chocolate bars, sandwiches, processed stuff and cans of soda in their lunchboxes. “Why are you eating that shit?\!” “You’re a weirdo\!” - Just imagine, the lobotomized morons thought what they were eating was normal and that my mate’s diet was abnormal, can you believe that? He told me about this at the athletics track when we were sprint training; it was no surprise to me – once you step outside the mainstream and do your own thing you get ridiculed by the brain-dead. It always happens.



Meat, fish, eggs and vegetables are your ‘health foods’. They are normal. They are what humans have been eating for a million years. Anyone who ridicules you for eating well is an owned zombie….victim to the forces that want to push junk food down your throat and make you ill for the sake of profit.



Some people think it’s not cool to look after your health and eat well – they would rather ‘enjoy themselves’ and not worry about it. *Listen* – you do not enjoy being overweight and unhealthy. You do not enjoy being so physically shit that you can no longer climb up a flight of stairs without having a heart attack. You do not enjoy losing all the health benefits of youth and vitality because you ate pizza and crisps all your life. There are so many physical, metabolic and psychological problems associated with being unhealthy and unwell, that it would take a whole book to write about them.



In your quest to conquer the planet you should eat well. This alone will put you in the top 5% of the population.



**TEST –** Survive without food and dominate hunger. As Gang Fit has stated many times, physical strength without mental strength is useless. It goes without saying that you need food to live but many adults are fucked-up by food addictions and cravings.

Why would you intentionally ‘starve’ yourself? Look at it this way – why would you do a test or challenge which was easy? To improve, to grow and to get stronger, you have to do stuff that is challenging. Too many kids are crying and moaning because they can’t have their favourite candy bar or go to McDonalds. Food controls them so they become victims to chocolate, sweets, pizzas, cakes. These losers have weak minds and no self-control. Go for 24 hours without food – just water, tea or coffee.

No juices, sodas or drinks containing sugar. I didn’t eat for 5 days – now, not eating for a day is laughably easy. Break your connection with food *and* your reliance on anything.





## Boomerang 



“Mummy, I want to climb the big tree”. “No, it’s too dangerous”.

“Mummy, I want to be an astronaut when I grow up”. “Don’t be silly. That’s not for the likes of you”.

“Mummy, look\! I can fly like a bird\!” “No you can’t\!”

“Mummy, I’m scared”. “Don’t be a baby”.

“Mummy, I want to be a singer”. “What?\! With your voice?\!”

“Mum, can you help me with my school work?” “I’m too busy”

“Mum, can you tell me how you and dad met”. “Shhh, I’m watching TV”.

“Mum, have you got £5?” “No. You think money grows on trees?”

“Mum, I didn’t mean to…I’m sorry”. “That’s not good enough. You’re always causing trouble”.



Mother – “Why do you never take any notice of me or your dad?” You - “What the hell?\! I’m going out”.



Them - “What have we done to deserve this?”



*Fuck that shit *

* *

If your parents have fucked you up, join the gang. There are so many useless parents that it’s practically the norm. But it’s no good for you to dwell on it – don’t let them fuck you up when they’re not even around. Some people are so messed up by their parents, they never get over it - they’re stay fucked up until they die. Real parents let their kids be themselves, encourage them and help them flourish; useless parents don’t care about their kids.



If you don’t get on with your parents, it’s ok; don’t think you’ll be rewarded in heaven for liking people who are idiots. Parents don’t have special powers, they are like anyone else, some are good, some are useless – get on with forging your life. If they are good parents they will come through for you in some way. If they don’t, move on.





## Fucked-up-ness 



A short note on do-gooders - steer clear of them, their need to do good is a pathological disorder. The idea that you should be nice to everyone, put others first, be reasonable, turn the other cheek, help out and so on, is truly fucked up. Leave people to their own lives. The sort of people who are always running around helping others are parasites, feeding off how “wonderful and caring” they are. It makes them feel big; furthermore these idiots will try and rope you into wasting *your time* sorting out other people’s problems.

There will always be miserable people, people on shit-street, people with problems, people with disabilities, people with cancer, retarded people, fat people, stupid people, people who support Arsenal – you can’t spend your life helping them.



Half the time do-gooders make things worse - “I was only trying to help” is their response when everything goes tits up.

Putting everyone else first is a sure recipe for a miserable life. Help the people you want to help and ignore the ones you don’t.





## Exploitation 



*People exploit you because you have ‘Exploit Me’ written on your forehead. *

* *

The reason you earn shit is because you deserve shit. The reason you have no money is because you deserve no money. The reason people take advantage of you is because you deserve to be taken advantage of. Does this mean you are useless? No it doesn’t.

It only means that you have low expectations of yourself. You have no confidence and self-belief.

Unless you were born rich and went to a top school, you will most likely have been brought up with limited thinking. Now you have to turn that around and stop being a wanker. Start expecting more from life. It is highly unlikely that you will rise higher than your expectations, so make your expectations far higher than they are now.



A few years back an interesting study was carried out; the same job vacancy was advertised but with two different levels of pay – the stated wage in one of the adverts

was far lower than the other. Incredibly, more people applied for the lower wage vacancy even though the position and experience required were identical. You would think that more people would apply for the higher paid job wouldn’t you? It goes against commonsense. But this is far from surprising – many people don’t think they are good enough to receive over a certain amount of money. They are scared of it.

They have psychological limits.



If someone offered you $800 or $100 an hour for help or advice, which one would you accept? Someone with confidence would have no problem taking the higher amount. Would you? It takes a while for someone to go from zero to hero, but you have to start asking for and expecting more. Eventually you will look back and wonder why the hell you sold yourself so short.



I was taking an Uber to some crap part of south-east London dominated by Albanian drug gangs and fried chicken shops. I got talking to the driver, a guy from Morrocco.

He said his close and extended family had moved to southern Spain years earlier \(before he had moved to London\) and that one day, when his kids grew up, he would go live with them. As well as being an uber driver, he said he did odd jobs here and there to make ends meet. What he told me next was an example of why he was poor even though he worked hard.

Around twenty years ago, an old school friend of his opened a clinic in London doing aesthetic treatments for rich women – botox, overpriced ‘rejuvenating’ creams…all that shit. He did so well at this that he opened up another one in Italy. After a while his friend became a millionaire. One day he asked our uber driver if he would spend the day on the door at the London clinic, sort of like a concierge; his friend was organising a special day and wanted to impress potential clients. That all went well, and at the end of the day his friend gave him £200 for his help. Here’s the crazy part

– our uber driver gave him £100 *back * and said one hundred was fine, he was just

“helping a friend”. What sort of spasticity is that?



The driver had told me this because he was genuinely impressed with the achievements of his school friend, and was recounting a story to while away the time until we arrived at fried chicken land.

Unfortunately for him his story backfired, I spent the next fifteen minutes telling him why he was a jerk. “He was only being nice\!” Nice to whom? His millionaire friend?

Two hundred quid represents loose change to him. A bloke with two children to bring up, and a wife at home, turns down money offered in good faith by a millionaire?

Stupid fucker – he deserves to stay poor.



If you are poor you deserve it. Start believing in yourself.



Note: There are people around you who bring you down, who are negative about your talents and abilities. Apparently, they tell you for ‘your own benefit’. You *have* to get rid of these individuals. You *have* to. Leave them behind. When you start achieving

things, either by yourself or with your band of brothers, it’s like a veil has lifted. You lose your low expectations of what you think you deserve.





## King of the Hill 



No matter how much running \(on the flat\) or fitness training an individual has done, running hills is a shock to the system. Nothing is written in stone but it is better for you to have a reasonable amount of fitness before undertaking serious hill training. If you have no real fitness \(how did that happen?\) and you foolishly try a mega-hill session, not only will you not be able to finish the session, but you’ll most likely vomit.



A well-trained runner can run very, very close to max on each rep without sacrificing the quality of the following rep \(dependent on the length of recovery between reps\), less fit individuals would have to pace themselves. Indeed a sign of fitness is the ability to recover quickly after intense effort. You can ‘hurt’ yourself on each rep, and survive. The last rep is all out war. In a sense the last rep is psychologically easier as it ‘takes care of itself’ – it doesn’t matter if you near kill yourself on the last rep – you have no recovery interval to observe. You can lie down for as long as you like. It’s intense, but you get used to it.



My hill sessions were brutal, each rep basically finishing DOA. Sometimes my quads would start to cramp near the top of the hill. One fellow in our group was taken to hospital – he wasn’t fit enough. After a few months off hills I completed a session in the evening with my friends; for hours after my pulse rate was racing, I had a headache and couldn’t sleep – I phoned my best friend because I thought I was going to die. The next week all was fine.



Hill training really benefits from doing with others. If you and your mates have any competitiveness or pride – you will run faster. It is psychologically harder because you know the session is going to be tough, but psychologically easier in that you

‘share the pain’, plus others in the group can take turns to lead. If someone is much faster than the rest, they will always be leading, that’s not good for them or you. It’s preferable to have a group where abilities are quite close. Run hard, hill sessions are fearsome; the more fearsome, and the more you overcome it, the better the feeling is.



When the strength drains from your legs, when you can no longer initiate strong muscular contractions - if you lose focus and stop purposely pushing yourself, it’s very easy to slow down. So, an aggressive mindset is essential for hills. A hard hill session is both exhilarating and frightening – but when you’ve completed a high-quality tough session, there’s no better feeling. Your training mates are your band of brothers. People say sport is fake war, maybe it is, but proper hill training is war. Last

man standing. If you are not prepared to hurt yourself – go home and stop fucking about.



Tip: When you find yourself slowing down near the top, rather than trying to push and extend your stride, do the opposite, consciously shorten you stride and move your arms quicker; this will increase your cadence, make you feel lighter and increase your speed \(for a while\) – the equivalent of shifting to an easier gear when cycling up a hill.



A hard hill session only needs to be done once a week; twice a week if you’re not doing anything else. Every 3rd or 4th hill session don’t do a warm-up. No cheating, run the first rep full-pelt, otherwise it would essentially be a warm-up. Without a warm-up your body has to cope with a sudden extreme demand. Young humans and animals in the wild can go from rest to full pelt in the blink of an eye. It’s one of the hallmarks of youth and dynamic vitality that the body can cope with sudden changes in conditions.

Doing a hill session without a warm-up will \*most likely\* lead to a poorer session overall, the whole session will probably feel more uncomfortable especially if the rest intervals are short - but a no warm-up session is a different kind of session. Call it

‘under the radar’ conditioning.





\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*



Generally, a hill session involves acidosis and oxygen debt to a greater or lesser extent – 6 x 150m\+ hills with 3 mins between doesn’t involve ‘all-out’ sprinting but a high sub-max. Pure sprint sessions \(if that is possible on a hill – we’ll call it “100%

effort”\) involve fast short reps with long recoveries where there is no acidosis, or at least, complete recovery \(sort of\) between reps.



## Some suggestions: 



1/ Find a reasonably steep hill. Run up for 150m. Slowly walk down \(3/4mins\). The session is over when you’ve completed six runs



2/ 100/150m hill – run up fast; jog for 15secs at the top \(on flat\) – sprint 100m.

Repeat four times.



3/ 40m; 80m; 150m; 200m – slow walk back recovery. 3 sets – 8mins btwn sets 4/ 8 x 250m – 5mins btwn



5/ 50m; 100m; 150m; 200m; 150m 100m; 50m; 250m – 4 mins btwn 6/ 2 x \(5 x 180m\) – 4mins btwn reps. 10 mins btwn sets



7/ 6 x 280m – 6 mins btwn



8/ 50m; 100m; 50m; 100m; 50m; 100m – 4mins bwtn. Repeat after 10mins.



9/ 3 x \(100m; 150m; 200m; 250m\) – 4mins btwn reps. 8 mins btwn sets 10/ 3 x \(4 x 150m\) – 4mins btwn reps. 6 mins btwn sets



These sessions are just ideas – the design of a session is only limited by your imagination.



Timing your repetitions and rest intervals removes all doubt about your progression.

You don’t have to time, but timing keeps you focused when the session starts getting tough. Without timing there can be a lot of self-kiddology – your mind starts trying to bullshit you.



Your access to a suitable hill determines the nature of the hill; length, slope and surface. One could argue that flatter hills are easier, but what makes a session tough is the effort you put in. A run of 100% effort over 200m on a hill is different to 100%

effort on the flat. There is a greater vertical element \(gravity\) involved, demanding different muscular qualities. So, it’s not just quality of effort but the nature of the effort.



Hill sessions really sort out the men from the boys.





## Oobleck 



Oobleck is a non-Newtonian fluid, which means it has properties of both fluids and solids. If you hit Oobleck with a hammer it becomes hard, but you can stick your finger in it like a fluid. Don’t believe it? Make some for yourself – one part cornflour to 1.5 to 2 parts water.

Oobleck is a good example of how a Gang Fit individual should be. A sort of non-Newtonian individual – ‘liquid’ normally but solid and unyielding when required.



The real warrior is not a bully of the poor and the weak. He has honour and lives by his word, *however*, if anyone tries to cage him, abuse him, dominate him or tell him how to live his life, his fearsomeness and independence turns him into an impenetrable force-field, or if necessary, a savage tiger. Easy going generally, but utterly ‘unreasonable’ \(what other people will say\) when pushed. You *have * to be like that as always doing what other people say will destroy your life. Why would you listen to circus fleas, zombies or the enslaved? “Oh, you have to get on with people\!”

No, you fucking don’t, who taught you that shit? You only need to get on with people you need to get with – the ones you like and love, and the ones who improve your life.



If you have a non-Newtonian mindset your friends will see it, you’ll become someone they admire as you don’t fold in the face of a crisis. You support them and they will support you.



**TEST** – the next time someone tries to push you around, stand up to them. The *only* reason you haven’t done it before is you are scared of them. They may be someone who is used to getting their own way with you, so when you refuse they will call you unreasonable, maybe cry, or even threaten you with ‘consequences’. Tell them to stop their bullshit - you won’t be moved. Take the consequences of this and be a man.

They will learn they can no longer take you for granted.

The more you do this the easier it becomes to say no to people - and stand firm. Don’t let other people waste your time and energy, Don’t let them dominate you.



Be like Oobleck, soft when you need to be, but hard when an idiot tries to push you around.





## Develop your talents



*The story of Wilma Rudolph who became the first American woman to win three gold* *medals at a single Olympic Games. *



\[Note: The following text from www.biography.com and www.tnhistoryforkids.org\]



## Early Life



Wilma Glodean Rudolph was born premature and sickly on June 23, 1940, in St.

Bethlehem, Tennessee; the 20th of 22 children to parents Ed and Blanche Rudolph.

The doctors doubted she would survive. She developed pneumonia and polio as a child, making her disabled for most of her childhood. For several years, her mother, brother or sister had to massage her legs four times a day. She had to wear a metal leg brace for several years. Wilma didn't start school until she was eight. Due to the intensive therapy her parents gave her she was able to permanently take off her brace by the age of nine.



Growing up in the South before segregation was outlawed; Rudolph attended an all-black school where she played on the basketball team. A naturally gifted runner, she was soon recruited to train with Tennessee State University track coach Ed Temple, and whilst still in high school, she qualified for the 1956 Summer Olympic Games in Melbourne, Australia. The youngest member of the U.S. team at the age of 16, she won a bronze medal in the sprint relay event.

After finishing high school, Rudolph enrolled at Tennessee State University, where she trained hard for the next Olympics.



Held in Rome, Italy, the 1960 Olympic Games was a golden time for Rudolph. After setting a world record of 11.3 seconds in the 100-meter dash in the semi-finals, she won the 100 in the final with a time of 11.0secs. Similarly, she broke the Olympic record in the 200-meter dash \(23.2 seconds\) in the semi-finals before winning the 200

in the final. She was also part of the U.S. team that beat the world record in the 4

x100-meter relay \(44.4 seconds\) in the Olympic semi-finals before winning the relay in the final in 44.5 seconds. Most notably, Rudolph became the first American woman to win three gold medals at a single Olympic Games. She instantly became one of the most popular athletes of the Rome Games as well as an international superstar.



Following the Games, Rudolph made numerous appearances on television and received several honours, including the Associated Press Woman Athlete of the Year Award, which she received twice, in both 1960 and 1961. She retired from competition not long after, becoming a track coach, but her accomplishments on the Olympic track remained her best known: Throughout the '60s, Rudolph was widely considered to be the world's fastest woman.



## Legacy


Rudolph shared her story with the world in 1977 with her autobiography, *Wilma*. Her book was later turned into a TV film. In the 1980s, she was inducted into the U.S.

Olympic Hall of Fame and she established the Wilma Rudolph Foundation to promote amateur athletics. She is remembered as one of the fastest women in track and as a source of inspiration for generations of African-American athletes. She once stated,

"Winning is great, sure, but if you are really going to do something in life, the secret is learning how to lose. Nobody goes undefeated all the time. If you can pick up after a crushing defeat, and go on to win again, you are going to be a champion someday."





\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*



Wilma Rudolph is an example that whatever your circumstances, you can succeed; whatever your background you can succeed; whatever your colour, age or educational status - you can succeed.

There is something important though – no sprinter gets to the top of the world without having a genetic advantage over the majority of the planet. Someone without the genetics will never be a top sprinter. Rudolph concentrated on something she had a talent for – this is the magic ingredient.



Fortunately, there are a zillion more ways to be a champion than winning a gold medal at the Olympics.

If you’re big, build crushing strength. If you’re fast, develop blinding speed. If you like fighting, take up a combat sport. If you’re clever, learn astrophysics. If you’re creative, be an artist. Everyone has natural tendencies and predispositions; find out what you’re good at \( *and like doing*\) and concentrate on that. If you spend your energies on things you have a talent for, you will become world-class. Let other things take a back seat. It’s also likely that becoming world-class you will make money doing it.

Some people tell you that you need to be a balanced person or an all-rounder to succeed; apparently you need to pass exams in many subjects to increase your chances of getting a job and doing well in life – this is pure bollocks. No one gets anywhere by being ‘balanced’.



The Golden Rule - to become a champion, world-class or extremely rich, concentrate on things you are good at and interest you. If money is the only thing that interests you, concentrate on making it. Some people say that only focusing on making money means you’re an evil person – ignore them.





## Now you see me, now you don’t 



A few weeks before the London riots in 2012, I saw a two-page magazine advert from a well known sports clothing company. The first page was a photo of a hoodie during the day – the second page was the same hoodie wearing dark clothes at night…practically invisible. It was pretty obvious what the company was trying to do but it backfired on the idiots – the riots called their marketing bluff. They had tried to sell an edgy image to kids but as soon as something serious actually happened they pulled the ad.



\[The riots were incredible. London went on lockdown, shops closed early and were boarded up – it was like some sort of zombie apocalypse. A strange wave of tension, excitement and anarchy hit the streets. This spread to other cities.

One morning I got up early and went for a walk to check things out - random shops had had their windows smashed overnight; proof that jackals come out in the dark.

Thing is, my area wasn’t anywhere near the riots; proof that when some real shit happens it will spread like a virus – a self-fulfilling contagion. Society is one-step away from chaos – one day you may be trapped in it\].



A friend of mine was jailed for taking part in the riots; they traced him through his dna. You don’t have to be paranoid \(maybe you do\) but just be careful - your business is your business. Whatever reasons they give you, your private life, dna, data, name of pet Gerbil, doesn’t belong to the Government.



If you live in a town or city you are being tracked practically everywhere you go.

Cameras are filming you. The next time you are out make a point of looking for them.

Some are on tops of buildings and others on lampposts. Some cameras you can see swiveling around – why are the fuckers doing this? Apparently, it’s to protect you from crime. But is crime going down? Fuck no.

The people in control have decided that it’s necessary for people to be protected from themselves.



There are high-resolution satellites orbiting the planet that are recording everything, they are not actually in space but so high up that you hardly notice them – they look like small dots in the sky.

They can triangulate your position from your phone. See where you’ve travelled from your oyster card. Your health data is being shared. Agencies can access your phone calls, emails and texts. The police can access all your social media. Your address is on the electoral role. Banks and finance companies share information about you with credit agencies. Passports have your biometric details. Facial recognition and full body X-rays are used at airports. Your phone is hackable. Your computer is hackable.

They know the porn you’ve watched. The websites you’ve visited and when you last went to piss.



Sooner or later everyone will be chipped \(like dogs\), done at birth, then everyone will be fucked. You will be chipped to make ‘your life easier’ - to access services, benefits, insurance, healthcare…everything. You will need to be chipped to get vaccinated and send your kids to school. You will need to be chipped to vote. You will need to be chipped to fly on planes. You will need to be chipped to enter a public building. If you’re not chipped you will be deemed a criminal.



The zombies are sleepwalking into a mass surveillance society; videoed, recorded, tracked and logged. What can be done about it? Nothing. Nothing can be done about it. Not only can nothing be done about it, but the zombies will think you are weird for having a problem with it. Fuck the lot of them.

The only way this will be stopped is if there is a major disaster or aliens knock out everything electronic on the planet and send us back to the dark ages. Then, glorious chaos will ensue, and strong and clever people will rise up – that would be one hell of a time.



The previous ‘off grid’ section advises that the best way to deal with all this is to diversify your identity and resources, but what if you can’t or haven’t yet? You may be young, or poor, or previously ignorant to the potential realities of life. In truth it’s highly unlikely in today’s world that you can make yourself invisible; but you shouldn’t be an idiot and broadcast everything. Your business is yours. In some shithole countries it’s possible to be born, live and die with hardly anyone knowing you existed. In a developed country it’s virtually impossible.



\[There’s a scene in the film, ‘Predator’ where Arnie realizes he can make himself invisible to the alien by covering himself with mud – an excellent example that if your enemy is invisible, to even the odds you have to make yourself invisible. This turned the predator’s strength against itself\]



1/ Don’t go on the Electoral Role \(ok, so you won’t be able to vote, so what – it doesn’t make any difference to your outcome in life\). Note: you need to be on the electoral role to access credit. But you don’t need credit, you should make money.

When you’ve got a tonne of money no one cares about you being on the electoral role.

2/ Don’t publicise your private business

3/ Pay by cash as much as possible

4/ Make sensitive agreements in person not email

5/ Have a basic ‘dumb’ phone as well as a smart phone



If you can’t \(or don’t\) want to do the above, you will need a ‘fuck you’ attitude.

People who may try to threaten you by ‘revealing’ things about you can take a hike.

Owned people can be manipulated and blackmailed by others, not you. The most pathetic example of this are the employed, scared of what their boss may think.



If you are independent and free, no one can push you around. Don’t let anyone scare you by the threat of highlighting your apparent misdemeanors. All warriors face challenges head on, they stay strong.





\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*



There may be occasions when you are being chased coppers or security guards. Gang members, thugs or adversaries who want to give you a beating. If your physical condition is poor, you will be found wanting when you to perform - when your life and future liberty may be at stake. All animals in the wild understand this; it is literally life or death for them, if they are overwhelmed and can no longer escape, they are history.



I witnessed a young kid being chased in a shopping centre by two security guards, he gave then the runaround, it was like watching two hippos trying to catch a gazelle –

the guards had no chance. They could see him but they couldn’t catch him.

Eventually, he made himself ‘invisible’ by escaping.



Strength, agility, speed and fitness are always an advantage. Don’t get soft.





## Muscle and Strength 



In the past few years the exercise paradigm of how to most effectively lose weight, keep fit and get strong has changed - now it’s believed that the best way is by undertaking short bursts of intense exercise with plenty of recovery – us sprinters knew that for decades. Rather than the fitness of the long distance wimp, you develop the dynamic strength and physique of a sprinter, decathlete or boxer…lean strong and fast. I would take it further and suggest that life should be like that; in fact life *is* like that. You know that on the street that there are long periods of nothing with short bursts of excitement, fear and adrenalin.



\[Note: This is how you build mental strength as well - periods of intense pressure or stress followed by ‘recovery’. To create or build something you need constant application that’s true, but to harden your mindset you need to face fears and challenging situations – talking in public, facing threats of violence, smashing up zombies, whatever.\]



You need regular doses of physical stress \(exercise\), the higher the stress the greater the stimulus to the body. With the appropriate downtime, nutrition and sleep, your body will adapt. The right sort of exercise coupled with correct eating will boost your transformation from non-entity to hero in no time whatsoever. Sprints, dynamic exercises, and hard resistance training with weights increase your testosterone level.

Testosterone enables you to build muscle more easily and keeps you lean.



When building muscle, don’t do too much endurance exercise. Chronic adherence to the wrong sort of exercise turns you into a wimp. Activities such as long distance running severely hinder muscle building. Exercising like a zero will enable you to run long distances \(very slowly\), but turn you into a physical wreck. You will feel tired, have no energy and look like a nobody. Exercising like a hero will make you fitter in a much more dynamic and impressive sense. You’ll get stronger, develop a killer physique, and feel more confident.

****

**CHALLENGE** – For the next five weeks concentrate only on building muscle and strength. Let everything else take a back seat.



Use these five exercises: squats, rows, bench press, barbell press and barbell curl – if you’re not sure how to perform them, look on the internet. Use *only these exercises* twice a week over four gym sessions. Make the weight you use appropriate to the number of repetitions. *Every set is hard. *



Monday

Squats: 6 sets – 8\(reps\), 5, 5, 5, 5, 8

Bench Press: 6 sets – 10, 8, 5, 5, 4, 10



Tuesday

Barbell Press: 4 sets – 10, 8, 6, 6

Row: 5 sets – 10, 8, 8, 6, 6

Barbell Curl: 4 sets – 10, 8, 8, 5, 12



Thursday

Squats: 5 sets – 10, 6, 4, 4, 15

Bench Press: 5 sets – 8, 6, 4, 4, 3,



Saturday

Barbell Press: 5 sets – 8, 8, 6, 6, 5

Row: 4 sets – 10, 10, 8, 8

Barbell Curl: 5 sets – 10, 10, 8, 8, 5



Have a light warm-up before each exercise then get straight into the work sets. It goes without saying that you’re going to have to work hard. These sessions are fairly short so you can give 100% effort and 100% focus. Attack the weights like they’re your worst fucking enemy.

To enable recovery and adaptation you will need more sleep and 50% more food than you’re eating now. Good quality food, protein, carbohydrate and fat. For this five-week period buy some protein powder and make sure you get 50grams of protein straight after training. You will get sore – don’t worry, your body will adapt.



After five weeks you will be far stronger \(and you’ll realise for yourself how you can alter your body\). How much muscle you put on will depend on how hard you’ve worked, your body type, your individual capacity for muscle growth, if you’ve eaten enough and if you’ve had enough sleep.

If you trained like this for a year, \(with a week off exercise after every five weeks block\) your body would be utterly transformed – your strength would easily be doubled with physique exploding with muscle.





## Claws, Horns, Teeth and Hooves 



On Youtube there’s a video of four male lions seeking out and attacking a lone male lion, it is brutal. The lion fights heroically for its life but after ten minutes it is so badly injured it can no longer offer resistance. Do the other lions leave it alone? Of course not, even though the lion is longer a threat, they kill it.



*You need weapons. *

* *

Some time ago I was in a bar in New York talking to a couple ex-special forces guys.

They told me about the dozens of guns and thousands of rounds of ammo they had –

so they would be prepared for the zombie apocalypse should it happen. The knee jerk reaction to this is think these are guys crazy. But are they? If I was a robber, bandit or jackal with evil intentions I would think twice about targeting their properties. If I did, I’d regret it.



First and foremost, weapons are there to protect yourself - and if defending yourself means hurting other people who want to seriously harm you, your loved ones or your family, then so be it. The rule of law protects normal people to a certain extent \(because most citizens observe it\) but try quoting it to someone who wants to mash-up your face.

The lion video is an example of the Law of Nature - the side with the greatest force wins. God help you if you are weak or defenceless and a crazed lunatic wants to harm you, or the people you care about.



Classes of protective ‘weapons’:



**1**/ Technological – guns, knives, axes, clubs…i.e. ‘arms’

**2**/ Physical – strength, fighting ability, health **3**/ Psychological - confidence, experience, intelligence, adrenal control **4**/ Financial – money, assets, land

**5**/ Legal – national/international law, police, lawyers Classes 1 and 5 have positives *but* potential problems; the middle three are all positive. Additionally, they can all allow you to take advantage of *opportunities*.

* *



\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*



The wider and more developed the classes of weapons you have the more likely you will be able to cope with and survive emergencies of all types; medical emergencies, government crackdowns, street attacks, robberies, business failures, meteor strikes, Godzilla and the Purge. This doesn’t mean you can be prepared for everything –

that’s impossible; there could be situations where only luck determines whether you come out unscathed. Also, just like our heroic lion, you may be overwhelmed by those with more weapons. In which case, go out fighting.





## Milo of Croton 



Milo of Croton was a legendary 6th Century Greek wrestler famed for his strength. He won many wrestling championships culminating in six Olympic titles. ** **No individual in the modern Olympics has equalled this or even come close. His most famous feat of strength was his ability to carry a four-year-old bull on his shoulders. As a youngster he started carrying a calf around, and as the calf matured and grew, Milo

matured and grew. The calf grew a little every day and everyday Milo’s strength responded to the increased stimulus.

His daily diet allegedly consisted of 9 kilos of meat, 9 kilos of bread, and eighteen pints of wine – even though the wine was watered down, the guy must have been pissed half the time. Even so, the way he built his strength is the cornerstone of strength-training; the blueprint for athletic and sporting success - progressive, incremental steps – gradually increasing the load or stress on the body.



If Milo was alive today he’d be able to crush the normal man - however, his manner of death is interesting and something to be aware of. The story goes that Milo was walking in a forest when he came upon a tree-trunk split with wedges. In what was probably intended as a display of strength, Milo inserted his hands into the cleft to rend \(pull apart\) the tree. The wedges fell out and the tree closed on his hands, trapping him. Unable to free his hands, the wrestler was killed and eaten by a passing pack of wolves.



*No matter his strength and fearsome reputation, Milo was no match for the truly wild. *

* *

Whatever your strengths, intelligence, experiences and bravery, there are wild forces in the world which could crush you in an instant, and these forces won’t care about it.

Don’t unnecessarily put yourself in truly dangerous situations, only idiots do that. If you go swimming in a crocodile infested river you are not courageous or brave, you are a moron – and you’ll likely be a dead moron. Always be aware of what’s going on around you so you can react quickly should anything happen. Most people are walking around with their eyes closed, having no clue of the dangers around them.



Primal and explosively violent forces exist that don’t care about anything. Have the sense to be able to recognize them and take appropriate avoidance \(or if you can’t escape, defence\) measures. Milo of Croton’s Olympic medals and accolades were no match against a pack of wolves.





## Never been a better time to be a nobody 



There has never been a better time to be a nobody. Some people who are trapped in mental slavery say it is impossible to create something from nothing. Well, what about the Big Bang Theory, the argument that the whole fucking Universe began from an explosion of *x* from a single tiny point \(sounds like bullshit\)? Why do ‘intelligent’

people believe that yet also believe that a ‘nobody’ can’t escape their background and create a great life? Potential can find a way.

Apparently, racism, prejudice, privilege, class, poor education, social status, parenting and other things work against you and keep you down – that’s utter bullshit, it only does if you believe it and use it as an excuse. Today you have more resources at your

command than at any time in the history of humanity. Incredibly, most of these resources are free or minimal cost.



Apps are free, video facilities are free, email is free, websites are pennies, payment processing is free and ideas are unlimited. Those ideas can be turned into reality; the tools to help you are all around you. The internet means you have the ability to access millions of people.

Any interest you have you can find information of it online. Your schooling, educational status and your grade C in English doesn’t matter – no one gives shit about them.



Going from mindless consuming and buying to creating and producing will change your future. The good thing about the enslaved zombies and nerds is that they have created things which you can use to design a new life. The free person should understand that for every free person there necessarily needs to be one-hundred employed people. They have created systems and products which you can use. Thank you, Zombie.



As you build your body and strength, so you can build a better life. Ignore or smash up people who try to stop you or categorise you as some minority victim. Their ideology doesn’t help you.



If you want to get on in life you will have to put in the hours, and be prepared to put up with crushing internal and external pressure – you may be so focussed that even not eating won’t stop you.

You may have to be prepared to look like an ‘idiot’ whilst others are being sensible and dutifully going to work, paying the bills and buying useless shit. It doesn’t matter, carry on, things will start changing. And when things start changing you will meet other like-minded individuals who will help you rise.



*There has never been a better time to be a nobody. *



Gang Fit is telling you that you rule the fucking world.


