+++
title = "2"
+++

GANG FIT: PART 2 

****

****

****

****

****

**- GANG FIT - **

****

**\(Part Two\) **

My old sprint coach once exclaimed, “In every school there’s a potential Olympian\!” From my experience in coaching, training and being a clever bastard, I think this is indisputable. Every nation that hosts the Olympics talks about how it will boost sport, inclusion, opportunity, health, blah, blah, in their country. It *never* does. It’s all part of the pre-Olympic hype. **Gang Fit** is your ‘Non-Olympic Legacy’, a real fucking legacy, not one made up by committees, experts, overweight ex-Olympians, politicians, social scientists, teachers, government or policy makers. This isn’t written in a wishy-washy way, as the important things in life aren’t wishy-washy. You found that out in Gang Fit Part One.

There’s an ‘Olympian’ in every school; an artist, fighter, criminal, scientist, business builder, explorer, dancer, producer – for every Olympic athlete there are ten thousand Olympian people. Your mission is to create something you can be proud of. Use the street i.e. real life, as your teacher. Whilst you’re doing this don’t get messed-up by other people’s problems. Steer clear of losers, wasters, zombies and people with no energy – they will drain the life-force from you, they’re toxic. Life can be like a boulder which you have to push uphill, don’t associate with people who make it more difficult. However, once you start succeeding the hill becomes flat, then it becomes downhill – you pick up momentum. All the while make sure you keep healthy, because health is your supreme asset. If you’re ill your life is fucked. Most people don’t become ill for no reason; it’s the consequence of being a wanker, not caring about their physical condition or what they eat. Your life is fucked anyway because you’re going to die; but don’t accelerate the damn process\! Leave that to the morons who blame their genetics or hormones for their illnesses. Keep strong, build muscle, face physical tests and challenges. Don’t just face them, purposely create them; this toughens your body and creates a strong mind. Most

people are physically and mentally soft, don’t be one of them, they’re pathetic. Even a tiny wild mouse is tougher than they are.

This book proposes a different world, a world where a nobody can become a king. Has anyone ever told you that? Your teacher hasn’t told you. Your parents haven’t told you. Nobody has told you that shit because they don’t believe it - which is why they haven’t achieved it. Achievement is for *other* people who have special talents, not for the likes of you. These people have an illness, and they spread it to other people. You have to murder them in your mind. Leave them behind. The thing is, some of those morons think they’re guiding you; doing you a favour by telling you the realities of life. But their realities are bullshit – they are like beetles who’ve lived all their lives under a stone; eating, shitting, working, sleeping, and breeding. They think this is what makes them knowledgeable – “the realities of life”. You shit the same as them, but you don’t have to live like them, or listen to their advice gained from living under a stone.

You should create your own legacy – you *can* create your own legacy. What else is there? Some parents say, “our children are our legacy”, true enough, but any moron can have children, it’s a product of copulation. Rats have a litter. Pigs have a litter. That makes you no different to a rat or a pig. Children are great but bringing them into this world doesn’t make you special. They are necessary for a good life but not sufficient. That’s the reality. There are millions of people with kids who are still enslaved, depressed and unfulfilled.

On creating a life, will everything go smoothly? Will you succeed at everything? Fuck, no – get real. But as you progress, many things which once seemed impossible will become eminently possible, until they become nothing at all. They haven’t changed, you have changed. Along the way you will meet other people like you.

People who are succeeding in life – not because everything is wonderful in their lives, that’s impossible, shit happens to everyone, but because they are doing something to create a better life. It doesn’t matter your background, colour or education, modern life gives you a zillion opportunities. Most of them you may never come across; it doesn’t matter, you’ll find, create, or stumble across the ones which are relevant to you. If you are young, whatever your history, what you can achieve is mindboggling. All you need to do is smash up your own cowardice, timidity, and fear.

Parts of society moan about poverty, inequality, injustice, discrimination, and scarcity. Ignore all that shit. It does you no good to focus on how terrible life is. How tough life is for other people shouldn’t be your concern. People don’t like to hear that message, but this is where Gang Fit differs, it contends that the world is improved when the individual improves their life. Focusing on improving your life isn’t selfish, it’s essential. When your life is improved, the lives of the people who matter to you will also be improved. That will be your Legacy.

* *

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

**Contents **

****

****

****

****

****

**Loserville, Somewhere-Town **

**The Oppressed Are The Oppressors **

**Donuts Can Make You Fit **

**True Natural Rebel **

**Avoid Sea Monsters **

**Expendable In Emergencies **

## Never Had A Cv 

**Starving In A Sea Of Plenty **

**Run For The Bus **

## National Slipper Index

**Stop Being ‘Nice’ **

**Gluten Free **

**Circuit Training **

**Coping Strategies **

**Kid Conquers World **

## 99 Cent Shop 

**Money Is More Powerful Than Heroin – And You Know What People Do To Get Heroin **

**Garbage Protection Mechanism **

**You Can Be A Flop **

**Vegetables Are Poison **

**True Story **

## Physical Targets 

**If Things Are Bad, Make Them Worse **

**A Property Buys You A Car – A Car Doesn’t Buy You A Property All Of Life In One Day **

**Muscular Arms **

**Hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia **

## Purpose 

**Leave School At 3 - Leave Work At 5 **

**The Illustrated Man **

**The System **

**Discount **

**Project X **

## Think And Grow Strong 

****

****

****

****

****

**Loserville, Somewhere-Town **

****

What is loserville? It’s a place where losers live. Where is it? Where you live. How do you get out of it? Don’t do what losers do. Then what? Do what losers don’t do.

Parents are teaching kids to be losers. Schools are teaching kids to be losers. Being a loser is a mindset that is brainwashed into kids at school. Dumb parents who believe they have their kid’s best interest at heart go along with it. Unless the child is a natural rebel or has a ‘learning disorder’ they are groomed into being a clone. Loservile is a virus, a zombie virus; a virus so insidious that people don’t know they have it. The point is that society works very well when most of its citizens are losers, it *requires it*

- it would fall apart if everyone was free. A society needs ‘productive losers’ in the way an ant colony needs worker ants. You can fight this by being non-productive \(as they see it\); not producing what they want but creating what you want. This means you rely on yourself and your band of brothers to create your own world, free from the cancer of the undifferentiated mass. Cancer doesn’t view itself as cancer, it’s doing what it’s meant to do; in the same way that zombies don’t realize they are zombies, they are doing what they are programmed to do.

The attraction of Loserville is that some people become very comfortable \(even, successful\) losers. They have a nice job, a nice house, a nice garden \(with herbaceous border\), a comfortable life, a good pension and a comfortable death. They’ve done well. Only an “idiot” would say there’s a problem with it. But this is its danger; if there were no upsides no one would do it. Employment, Loserville, Enslavement, Commuting - is an existential crisis not a financial crisis, fucking idiot. It will *neve* r suit countless millions of people as it makes them feel trapped. No sentient creature on this earth likes being trapped. Animals in zoos develop neuroses because they’re trapped. People develop neuroses because of it. *If employment doesn’t suit you, you* *are normal, not abnormal. * You are not the loser, they are. The reason they are isn’t financial - it’s because they traded freedom, independence and liberty for the security of a monthly wage. The definition of selling your soul to the devil. Then the fuckers brainwash their children the same way. The kids have got no chance.

A person is not ‘winning in life’ if they have no self-determination, no matter how much they earn. So it’s always wrong to judge someone by how much money they have without knowing if they’re free or not.

Gang Fit doesn’t give a shit what other people think, neither should you. When you have no money, losers will tell you why their way of existence is preferable to yours; they’ll call *you* a loser. This is because their minds are warped, they can only view things through money, they are hypnotized by it. As far as they are concerned money is the *only* measure. The dumb fucks understand about the idea of starting a business,

even though most businesses fail and leave the business owner penniless - yet, they can’t understand the idea that you are your own business, you are minding your business – you hate being employed because being employed is slavery. You want to be free, not a slave – even if freedom comes with the risk of starving. And when you do well, you succeed, make money and create something amazing, the brain-dead have the nerve to say you did well. How do you think that happened you dumb-fucker slave?

Loserville is a Cancer. It just doesn’t know it’s a cancer. It’s a cancer which is trying to spread. It’s an undifferentiated mass. It’s your neighborhood. As soon as you step outside of it, you see it.

****

****

## The Oppressed Are The Oppressors. 

Whatever someone’s background, even if you think they are nice - if you’re weak they will try to control you. Even the oppressed can become the oppressors. You would think they’d know better, right?

The freed US slaves who were relocated to Liberia in the mid-19th Century, created a cultural and racial caste system in their new home. The Americo-Liberians, as they were called, established plantations and businesses, and became richer than the indigenous people. They began to exercise overwhelming political power, even though they were the minority. They dominated and 'enslaved' the indigenous population. Former slaves created slaves – what sort of bullshit is that? Further, they were religious; they regarded the irreligious indigenous population as little more than animals. Ironic, as many white people in the US thought the former slaves were sub-human - physically and mentally inferior to whites, more like animals.

*People who were slaves had become like their former masters. Is there anything more* *fucked-up? *

Never take things for granted, the nicest people may be monsters. The weaker you are the more they will want to dominate you; they just can’t help it - they think they are right and you are wrong. History is littered with examples of peoples who were once oppressed becoming the oppressors of other people. It’s not that people don’t learn, it’s that they don’t care. Even though they know what it’s like to be treated like shit, enslaved, even killed – they are prepared to do it to others.

Get this absolutely straight: Do not be subservient to *anyone*. Do not allow anyone to dominate you. Do not let anyone control you. Do not let anyone tell you how to live your life. It’s fine to care about other people and consider what they say. And it’s ok to have the normal dynamic of a healthy relationship. But it is not fine to be so dominated by someone that your life is not your own. Once you escape from a

relationship like this you realise what a pathetic idiot you’ve been. Of course, it goes without saying that you owe nothing to the stranger who tries to push you around. It’s good to be nice to people, but don’t believe you’re being nice when you’re actually being a weakling. Weaklings eventually get crushed.

It doesn’t matter someone’s history; whether they’ve been tormented, abused, enslaved or treated like shit. If you are weak, they will do start doing the same to you; and you’ll deserve it.

****

****

## Donuts Can Make You Fit 

**CHALLENGE** - Find a 5-storey plus, building. In the city that’s pretty easy to do.

You can use the stairs for a superb workout. However, some blocks have a security guard. If so, the first time you go, bung them a fiver and ask if you can use the stairs for a workout. After that take them a donut every time you visit. Security people love donuts because most are out-of-shape, bored-out-of-their-mind people who are out-of-options. Giving them a donut will make their day. Eventually they’ll look forward to your visit. They might even invite you back to their place to meet the wife and disabled kid.

\[Note: Everything can be used for something other than its primary intention. In this instance a donut becomes a bribe. A paper clip can become a weapon, and beer can be used to trap slugs. Used in a different way, a photo of a bear may be more dangerous than a real bear\]

You may live in a block of flats, or know some stairs which are not in a building –

you can use those. It will save you the donut money. But you’ll miss out on meeting nazi-in-a-uniform. Ok, ok, security guards aren’t all Nazis, but Gang Fit has to be consistent.

**Session**: Walk up the stairs and back down five times. Do this twice a week.

* *

*Progression*:

1 Once walking is easy – walk faster. Once that is easy, run up the stairs. Eventually you’ll be able to sprint up the stairs. How you achieve that is up to you. The aim is to be able to sprint up the stairs five times in a row. You always *walk* back down for recovery. Before you can sprint all five in a row you may need to do one lot fast, the next normal, and so on.

2 When you can sprint up the stairs, get some 20lb dumbbells \(or kettlebells\) with good grips. Go back to walking up the stairs holding them in each hand. When you do this go up as flat-footed as you can. Naturally, you will come down on your toes.

3 Once you can do this you should do one session, sprint up the stairs, and one session, walk up with weights, per week.

This is a *significant* workout for your legs, heart and lungs. You may feel light-headed when you first start, but persist, it won’t last. The lower limbs and cardio-respiratory system are your power generators. Developing these turns you into an unstoppable beast.

**You vs Security Guards **→ **Donuts **

Ever see those films where some sort of disaster or crises happens? Who are the first to die? The old, the unfit, the obese, the stupid and the unlucky. There’s nothing you can do about bad luck, shit happens – but being fit, robust and dynamic can only be good; it is an insurance policy for when unholy bullshit strikes:

- It gives you a greater ability to avoid, escape. or deal with sudden street-level life-threatening events – you come out unscathed or less harmed than others. You live to fight another day. Being healthy and strong enhances your ability to cope with the variations and challenges of life. Life is a stress test, random events are stress tests.

Banks are subject to stress tests to see if they can cope with fluctuations, outliers and extreme situation. Your assets to survive real-life stress tests are physical strength and robust health. Jesus, some people keel-over from having to run for the bus; they need oxygen to recover. It’s their only exercise for a month. They deserve it, lazy fucks.

- The disaster that everyone faces is getting old. People have insurance policies for all sorts of things, their cars, their houses, inability to work, and so on - but the average person doesn’t look after their health, even though they *know * aging is going to happen. Some young people think they are healthy, when, in fact, their health is mostly a function of youth not because they look after themselves. They eventually learn their lesson. As they age, they start suffering from the same conditions that older people suffer from. So it’s not only about being able to cope with the short-term risks of meteor-strikes, being chased by zombies or novel viruses, but the long-term risk that everyone faces. The way to see the long-term risk is to look at people older than yourself. What do they look like? What are they suffering from? Those fossils are a window into your future if you don’t look after your health.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

View stair training as an insurance policy, money in the health bank, an anti-aging strategy. However, unlike all the other insurance policies it pays out benefits every day, in that you feel unstoppable. You’ll live forever. Buy some donuts and get to it.

****

****

## True Natural Rebel 

The vast majority of kids who were rebels at school end up enslaved as adults. They were never true rebels. The true natural rebel is very often a quiet unassuming school-kid, not the violent uncontrollable one who ends up broken like a wild horse. Real rebels don’t look like rebels. You can look like anything you want but don’t believe that *just* because you look different you *are* different. Many young people desperately try to look different; this in itself is a sign of conformity. Looking different ain’t shit.

Buying fancy clothes or dying your hair purple isn’t non-conformity, any fool can do that, it takes no effort.

Teachers teach you useless shit to become employable. You need to drop that nonsense and become unemployable. A rebel doesn’t care what other people know because no matter what people know, they are still trapped. When you’re a rebel people will regard you as brainless, an idiot; “When are you going to grow up?”

“Why don’t you get a job?” “Why can’t you be more like your sister?” If you don’t care what they say, it will irritate them, but that’s fine, they don’t own you. \#fact

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Being a ‘drop out’ and not doing shit won’t get you anywhere. That’s being a rebel without a brain. Plenty of kids don’t conform but they are just lazy lard-arses, watching Netflix, playing video games, and eating junk food all day. If you are unemployed you should be *gainfully* unemployed. If you are employed \(why?\), you

should be *gainfully employed in your non-work time*. This is the only way you will escape normal society. It’s fine to have fun and enjoy life, but whilst you’re doing it, you should be learning something. Employment tells you that you should you work at the office/shop/factory and have leisure at home. Do the opposite, waste as little mental energy at work as you can get away with, and work towards something outside. The same with school. If a teacher asks; “Johnny\! Why are you slacking?”

Tell them you’ve enrolled into the ‘School of Gang Fit’.

The School of Gang Fit is one where you find out stuff for yourself; it is not spoon-fed to you by a teacher. You decide your own subjects, not them. Where you learn more from *doing the test* than you do from revising for the test. At school the lesson comes before the test, this is arse about tits – the opposite to real life.

Being a true rebel requires a brain even though people will say it’s brainless.

Essentially, it’s not even being a rebel\! It’s being real and forging your own life. To normal people, looking after yourself and not giving a damn about what they are concerned about makes you an outsider. It is an act of defiance - you are a rebel in their eyes. A real rebel is not a rebel for the sake of it; they are just someone who is creating their own life, free of the concerns of others. That makes them dangerous.

This is important - it needs repeating. *You need to be in control of your life*. This one thing will make you diverge from your loser friends.

Kids who don’t care about the consequences of their actions are uncontrollable.

Society doesn’t know what to do with them. The problem is that most of them aren’t doing anything to control their own lives – they eat junk food, play video games into the early morning and talk stupid shit to each other. If you are “out-of-control” in the normal world, you *have to be* in control of your world. Being an idiot in both worlds won’t get you anywhere, you’ll end up broke or in prison. A total loser. An uber loser.

A total, uber loser. Worse even than the employed losers. Don’t give a shit about the normal ways of society or what they think, *but do give a shit how you think and what* *you do*. Be a rebel with a brain.

****

****

## Avoid Sea Monsters 

A long time ago, when big ships were made from giant Oaks, some sailors spied an island in the middle of the ocean - so they set towards it. They had spent weeks at sea and were desperate to be on dry land. As they sailed closer they observed that the island had no trees and was featureless. Anyway, on arrival they dropped anchor and alighted on the island. To celebrate their good fortune they took food and beer with them so they could have a feast. They lit a fire to cook whatever it was that sailors used to eat when ships were made from wood. However, after a couple of minutes the

‘island’ began to lurch and shake violently, heaving up and down and side to side.

Finally, it rose into the air then plunged down beneath the waves, taking the sailors with it, and smashing their ship into a million pieces. The sailors had unwittingly settled upon the back of a massive sleeping sea monster, which had woken after they lit the fire.

There is some good news. The salty sea-dogs had the most honourable death – death at sea. They died with their boots on.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Some things may look like a fine idea, but they’re not. If our sailors had been a bit more observant they would have realised there was something not right about the island - but in their desire to get onto dry land they were careless.

The good thing about being young is you have enough time to come back from mistakes, but some mistakes are so dumb you may never recover – stupid shit like trying to kiss a shark, stroke a hyena, or betting your life on Arsenal winning the Premiership. In your mission to escape slow death by zombiefication, it’s good to try random non-life-threatening stuff. It opens the door to opportunity and hidden chance.

The fancy way I’ve heard it said is, “*life should be a portfolio of safe-to-fail* *experiments” *. Try out different stuff; no one can see with absolute certainty where success will come from.

Avoid crap which is life and health threatening. Don’t put yourself in the position where you can lose lots of money. I know someone who guaranteed the debts of a business for a friend, using his house as security. He also gave the business a few thousand to help start, with no guarantee of return. What do you think happened?

Let’s just say, they are no longer friends. Life teaches lessons you don’t get at school.

As our sailors found out, some dangers are hidden. Clued-up people can ‘smell’ them though, they know the dangers. Be clever and not an idiot. Don’t be taken in by people trying to sell you a monster. Sometimes it may be a friend selling you a monster, a dumb idea which has the potential to harm you. Don’t be nervous or guilty about turning them down. Saying no to a friend is far better than falling out when the shit turns sour. Friends’ falling out because of a failed venture is very common.

Note: Some things may look like ‘monsters’ but they’re not – it’s just your fear or lack of confidence stopping you. So, you need to distinguish between the real monsters and the monsters inside your head.

****

## Expendable In Emergencies 

It’s said that the first role of a government is to protect its citizens – this isn’t true, as the first role of government is to *protect itself, * then to protect others.

This is the hierarchy of governmental priorities:

1 Protect itself

2 Protect ‘society’

3 Protect citizens

4 Protect you

5 Protect criminals

6 Protect animals

There are greater priorities than protecting you. You are fourth on the list, just above criminals. This means you are expendable in emergencies for the protection of the categories above you. There are situations where your government would actively harm you, or knowingly allow you to be harmed for the ‘greater good’.

We’ve all seen the films where some sort of virus, which turns people murderously insane, hits a town, part of the city, or some remote place. What happens when the authorities get wind of what’s happening? They put the entire place on lock-down; no one can leave or enter. An attempt to stop the virus from spreading. This is an understandable and necessary strategy - but woe betide those who are trapped in the infected area, they become collateral damage. Sacrificed for the sake of others. You cannot blame the authorities for doing that, it’s their duty.

*Here’s the thing*: Sometimes circumstances will dictate that you will be harmed or come out the worse, and no one will be to blame, it’s not personal. In a sinking ship would a parent save their child or you? You think you have been treated unfairly?

With this is mind we can clear up some claptrap. People are too busy being victims, complaining why life is so uniquely hard for them. Don’t be like that. Some things

will turn out shit and no one will be to blame; not your parents, friends, partner or the government – it’s just circumstance. Life doesn’t hate you. Life is indifferent. It doesn’t know you exist. You are nothing. You could be extinguished instantly for no particular reason, and hardly anyone in the world would give a damn. It’s nothing personal. There’s a video on youtube of a Stork deliberately throwing one of her chicks out of the nest to enhance the survival probability \(due to the supply of food\) of her other chicks – rather two healthy chicks than three underfed. Talk about a bad day for that chick, mothers are meant to protect their offspring, right?

Example 1: I lived in a small village in the country for three years. Being very flat, and at sea level, the whole region was prone to flooding. Over the years, pumping stations, drains and sluices had been built to protect the area from flooding. However, one particular year the flooding was so severe that people were trapped in their villages with no way out other than by boat. The roads had become rivers. To protect the areas with the most houses and inhabitants, the flood water was deliberately drained and pumped into the less populated areas. The smaller villages were overwhelmed. Many farms were under feet of water for weeks. The authorities had decided this was the only way to reduce the overall damage. Save the bigger areas, flood the smaller areas.

Example 2: Power black-outs happen every now and then, right? Most people have experienced them. Maybe a power line is down, demand for electricity has outstripped supply, or a generator is down. A national power grid has spare capacity for when things go wrong. What happens when things go more wrong? In the UK a while back, the trains \(in a large area of the country\) stopped running. The electricity supply to the signaling facilities of the rail network was cut off – this meant the trains had to stop.

Even though the supply was only cut off for only ten minutes, the trains were fucked for hours.

Most people, because they are morons, have no idea why this happened; all they were concerned about was that it disrupted their commute home from work. When everything returned to normal they went back to brain-dead slavery mode. Me, being free-like-a-bird and having my own time, wanted to know what happened. After a bit of digging about I found this explanation from an electricity system expert. Here’s his summary:

* ‘A frequency trace to which we have access at Strathclyde shows that the fall in* *system frequency was arrested by the combination of responses on the system but* *dropped to below 49.2 Hz. However, the trace also shows a second drop in frequency* *about a minute after the first one. With much of the scheduled frequency response* *capacity having been exhausted and not yet replaced, system frequency subsequently* *fell to less to 48.8 Hz at which point the first stage of** ‘Low Frequency Demand ***

***Disconnection’ \(LFDD\) operated. **LFDD is an ‘**automatic defence measure’** *

*installed on the distribution networks and designed to save the system from a *

*complete collapse. It does so through restoring the balance between generation and* *demand by opening **circuit breakers** on portions of the distribution network to* *disconnect demand. It works in 9 successive tranches, each triggered if system* *frequency continues to fall.’ *

* *

*‘The first tranche of LFDD, the only one that was triggered on Friday, is intended to* *disconnect 5% of demand under **Operating Code No. 6 \(OC6\)**. * * However, on Friday,* *the disconnected demand seemed to include supplies to Network Rail signalling* *facilities. This, in turn, caused interruptions to train services. Even though system* *frequency was restored to around 50 Hz within 10 minutes of the initial generation* *losses \(partly as a result of the demand disconnection\) and National Grid said that *

*“By 6.30pm, all demand was restored by the distribution network operators” * *,* *restoration of rail services took much longer.’ *

* *

Note the parts in bold - the power grid acted in the same way as the flood defence system in the earlier example – it ‘harmed’ one area to defend the whole system.

However, the process was automatic, no human decision making was involved in triggering the defence mechanism. Further, something went wrong, the shutting down of the signaling supply was an unintentional consequence – a mistake.

As we descend deeper into a Skynet Society, when the shit hits the fan, no humans will be involved, no emotions, and no conscience – your fate will be decided by an automated procedure. If that’s not bad enough, it may fuck up. Nothing personal.

Example 3: People are under the illusion they own their land or property if they have no mortgage or debt on it. This is never true, the Government can take it from anyone at any time, and for any bullshit reason they make up. In the 1940's the UK

government took over an *entire village* and never gave it back – they turned it into a Ministry of Defence war games area. The government said they’d give it back, but they didn’t. In China, whole valleys with hundreds of villages have been flooded to make giant dams for electricity generation. Hundreds of thousands of citizens forced to leave everything they know. In this case, protecting \(benefitting\) society comes before protecting citizens.  

Compulsory Purchase, Eminent Domain, or Land Acquisition, depending what country you’re in, means the State has the power to seize or demolish your property \(or land\) for the ‘public good’, or some sort of grand project; a hyper-speed rail line, Olympic development, airport runway, a vanity project, and so on. They can also seize where you have your business. Ok, they are meant to compensate the owner, or offer a suitable place for relocation, but the point is there is no choice. They decide, and you are the collateral damage. The Government can steal your family home even if you’ve done nothing wrong. Additionally, compulsory purchase orders can be used to acquire land which *benefits a private interest* - homes in Islington, London, were

purchased \(stolen\) to build the Emirates Stadium for Arsenal Football Club. You don’t own shit.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Cloud Cuckoo Land is thinking the Government will always look after your best interests. You are not their first interest. You are not even their second or third interest. You are just above the criminal in the list of their priorities. In the scenario of zombie attacks, virulent spreading viruses or alien invasions, the poor or affected areas will be jettisoned for the greater good. This won’t be considered a crime because the situation will have necessitated it.

Gang Fit proposes that you can reverse this. The government, society, and its citizens shouldn’t be your priorities. You should be your number one priority. In an emergency situation all those knobs are expendable if necessary, for your survival.

Nothing personal. If you do this it will probably be viewed as a crime – yet you would only be doing what the State would do in an emergency. It is entirely ethical to put yourself \(and your family, or whoever you care about\) first. It would be ethically wrong not to. What would happen if others were eliminated for your greater good?

Easy, you’d be put in prison. But in an extreme situation, society would break down, the police and army would have other priorities, the phones wouldn’t work, and there’d be no public transport. There would be no system to arrest you or put you in prison. Normal life would cease. The jackals would come out and you’d have to take matters into your own hands.

In your own life, the people and things which don’t mean much to you are

‘expendable’. You’ve no doubt thought what you would do if you were on a sinking ship or some sort of disaster situation, yet normal life is a long-term disaster if you don’t focus on the things that matter. Life is a slow train wreck if you let it get out of your control. Jettison the people who contribute to your hardship – *it is your moral* *duty*. There are only two or three things in life which are very important, and one-hundred things which are of ‘medium’ importance. The medium important things will never make up for the very important things. In an emergency you should view all the things below ‘very important’ as expendable, because in an emergency *you* will be expendable.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

When civilized society collapses, it will do so in an instant. You go to bed safe and secure; when you wake up, everything has changed - your old life will be dead. There was a storm in the UK a while back. Gusts of wind reached 60mph in London – this stopped 80% of the trains running. A bit of fucking wind\! When some real shit happens, everything will stop, nothing will run. The gas stations will run out of fuel.

Phones won’t work and power generation will stop. You won’t have access to cash,

which won’t matter as the shops won’t be open – people will loot them to get food and water. You won’t be able to get in touch with the people you care about.

**TASK** – This is straightforward and can be implemented now. Choose an address where all the people you care about should meet in the case of a real crisis; your family, loved ones, pet llama, whatever. Everyone should try to get there any way they can, from wherever they are, however long it takes, two hours to two weeks.

Everyone will wait at that address until the last person has arrived. This means that the most important people in your life are all together. From there you can decide what to do as a group. It is not for anyone to think, be clever, or second-guess – *just* *get to that address*. It needs to be an automatic response to some sort of societal collapse when all communications have been cut. Is this paranoid? Yes. Paranoia means survival, as long as it doesn’t make you run from one threat into the jaws of a larger threat.

Ultimately, you \(and your loved ones\) are expendable. It’s nothing personal. You need to turn that around. In emergencies protect yourself and your clan before anything else. Other people as collateral damage. It’s not nice, but survival is primal, it is wild - it is the evolutionary history of the planet.

****

****

## Never Had A CV 

What’s a CV? It’s the acronym for Curriculum Vitae, which means, ‘ *I need a job’, * in Latin.

When I left school I was pretty clueless. I hadn’t been taught there were ways to live other than being a full-time employee. I’d been brainwashed into conformity. I put on my only suit and went to an employment agency who told me I needed a CV to help me get a job. I had no idea what a CV was, and I didn’t know Latin because I went to a modern school where it was regarded as an unnecessary, dead language. \[Note: *All* the top private schools teach Latin, so they must know something that shit schools don’t. If you’re a normal street kid in a gang, and you teach yourself Latin, it will confuse the hell out of the people you meet – they won’t be able to bracket you. This one thing can help alter your life, not necessarily because you can read Latin shit, but that any preconceived notions that people have about you will change\].

As I was just out of school my CV only contained my school history, exam results, hobbies and interests – eleven years of schooling reduced to this. The employment agency also gave me a twenty minute maths and english test which was so easy I completed it in seven seconds. So, now I was registered with the agency. It worked because I got an interview at a bank within a week. Unfortunately, the interview went well and they employed me.

For about a year I was happy, I had money in my pocket, and I worked in the centre of an exciting City. But it didn’t last. A sense of unease started to creep in, the novelty was wearing off - I began to feel trapped. I remember looking at the older employees at the bank; they looked unhealthy and half-dead, devoid of vitality. This wasn’t what I wanted. I quit.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

I hadn’t yet figured out that it wasn’t the bank which was the problem, *but* *employment itself*. After the bank, the jobs I had were sales related. Sales jobs don’t give a shit about your exams, qualifications, or that you do macramé in your spare time – all they care about is that you can sell. They filter out the hopeless applicants in the interview \(or during the phone call for the interview\); the people who pass normally have a period, say, of two weeks where they are thrown into the deep end, sink or swim. If they can’t sell, they’re out. I remember having an interview on the 33rd floor of a building in Canary Wharf \(the centre of finance and fraud, in London\)

– no CV was asked for. I passed, of course. On the first day I noticed the mix of salespeople, it was completely diverse. The employer didn’t care who we were, what age, what colour, what ‘gender’ or how we dressed. It was still a bullshit job though, because most jobs are bullshit - but a CV didn’t mean anything to them. Note: They regarded degrees the same way. A degree doesn’t mean diddly-squat when it comes to selling. They ran an evolutionary system, survive or die. The most effective system there is.

I promised myself to never again have a CV. Further, I realised that the jobs which required a CV were *precisely* the type of job I didn't want. Any jobs that needed a CV, I filtered out. A CV is like, “I’ve been a good boy, been employed, done all sorts of amazing work-related things, and was a key member of the sales force \( *as if*\). I like travel, reading and socialising with friends. Once I cycled from London to Paris and raised £2k for my local hospice *”. * Translated: “*Please hire me, please hire me, I’m* *desperate. I hate my job, the pay is shit and I’m going nowhere.” *

Ok, so I lied – I did have a CV but only for a year or two until I came to my senses.

The CV experts tell you how a CV should be presented, and that it shouldn’t show long periods of unemployment – well, that’s people like me fucked; I spent half my life gainfully unemployed – a CV would be pure fiction. The thing is, most employed people lie on their CV; this is called ‘tailoring it to the job you’re applying for’.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

What do you want? You can have a ‘CV Life’ or a ‘Non-CV Life’. The majority choose the former because they don’t know any better. When you’re employed in the type of shit job which requires a CV, you are surrounded by other people like you.

You socialise with them. Then you marry one of them. Then you have kids. Then you

brainwash your kids into the same world. A self-perpetuating loop of zombiefication.

A living hell of slavery where slaves give birth to, and raise, other slaves. There are definitely people around who are happy with slavery, it makes them feel secure; they are born with the slavery gene. There are others whose environment creates it in the way a long-term prisoner becomes institutionalised. So, it’s possible the slavery mindset is one part nature, one part nurture. If you have a ‘predisposition for enslavement’, and you are surrounded by that mindset as you grow-up, you become willing fodder for the slave nation. We have to ask ourselves, is the zombie happy being a zombie? They may well be. They go to zombie pubs, watch zombie sports, form zombie institutions and talk zombie-talk.

If you are happy living in Zombie-World, be my guest. Work all your life, retire, then die. All of it will be summarised in your CV which your relatives can keep on their mantelpiece, next to the urn of your ashes

****

**Starving In A Sea Of Plenty **

For two years my daughter and I had a set of keys to the pier of a popular resort on the English coast. How it came about that two townies were given the authority to open an entire pier for their own use is still a mystery to me. This meant that after the pier had closed we could let ourselves in and do some fishing with no holiday makers, boats, or scuba divers \(the arch enemy\) getting on our tits.

* *

Question: *Why is it that two people can fish off practically the same spot of a pier but* *their catch is wildly different? *

Two examples, learned from experience:

**1**/ We were getting hacked-off. An hour or so after the pier closed the fish would stop biting. Particularly annoying, as we were looking forward to a few hours fishing free from the presence of day-trippers. One evening, when were buying some knackered looking ragworm from the angling shop, the owner advised us that after a certain time we should present the bait lower down - this would enable us to catch the bottom-feeders. Later that night, we did just that; a depth adjustment to a sliding rig of around ten feet, attracted bites almost immediately. When we first tried this it was like a miracle. The scaly fuckers had been within reach all the time - literally a few feet away but we hadn’t realised.

First lesson: A simple depth adjustment of the bait opened up a whole new world of fish.

Sea-life is split into marine layers \(amongst other things\) like the rock strata on the face of a cliff. Bottom-feeders tend to stay on the bottom; they rarely go near the surface to feed. Mid-water and surface feeders do the same thing.

**2**/ When we first starting sea-fishing ‘seriously’ we bought some nice big fancy floats which we thought would do the job. We wanted bigger floats as smaller ones were harder to see in the sea swell. For the first few days there were plenty of fish testing the bait but very few definite bites. We knew there were fish around due to the amount of ‘knocks’ on the floats. One day an experienced fisherman passed by, so we spoke to him about our frustration. He knew what the problem was. He advised us to use smaller floats; “the problem is your floats are too big, when the fish try the bait they feel the resistance of the float, so they spit it out”. Stupid us, we were using floats big enough to be seen easily in the sea but *hadn’t thought it might not suit the fish*.

They sensed there was something wrong as soon as they felt an unaccustomed resistance due to the buoyancy of the float. When we swopped to smaller floats we started hooking the fish.

Second lesson: We only thought about our point of view, not the p.o.v. of the fish.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

The more knowledge an angler has the more fish they catch relative to the inexperienced. The newbie may catch hardly anything and when asked why, responds,

“there are no fish around” or, “they’re not biting”. An inexperienced angler could fish all day in an area alive with fish but come away with zilch.

The Kalahari bushmen, indigenous aboriginals and other hunter-gatherer dudes know that to effectively track, trap, or catch an animal you have to *become* *that* *animal*; see the world through its eyes. So it is with fishing, the more experienced you become the more you understand the mind of the fish you are trying to catch.

My daughter and I have enough experience that we can generally tell the type of fish \(before seeing it\) simply from the way it takes the bait, and the signature pull on the line. We also appreciate that fish have an undeserved reputation; every angler knows that fish aren’t the dumb ‘five-second memory’ creatures that people think they are -

yes, they are creatures of habit, but so are humans.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

***You understand all this shit about fishing is a metaphor, right? *** 

Money and opportunity is everywhere, all the time.

The saying goes that, ‘God hides opportunity by hiding it next to you’. Gang fit doesn’t give a fuck about God, but opportunity *is* everywhere. If you think it is, it is.

If you think it isn’t, it isn’t. Your parents, teachers, and other adults may have damaged your brain with the scarcity mindset, “there’s not enough to go round\!” This is complete bollocks, there is so much opportunity it is oozing from every crack in the pavement. Just adjust your mindset like we adjusted our bait. Don’t be like the inexperienced fisherman who catches nothing in a sea of plenty.

## Run For The Bus 

Someone said, “never run for a bus”, meaning you should determine how you live, and not be at the mercy of circumstance. I get it, but add another view, “*run for the* *bus, because you can, even though it’s not necessary*”. Isn’t that why people climb mountains? In a way, it *is * necessary, very necessary - you do it *precisely* because you can - so it needs doing.

Your mind wants comfort, it will come up with all sorts of reasons why you shouldn’t exert yourself; this is an evolutionary survival mechanism – to get food for the least amount of effort. A long time ago, the natural environment didn’t care what you wanted; you needed to earn your food. All you need to do now is catch the number 22

bus to the supermarket. As you no longer live in the wild, you have to recreate it by making your life more physically challenging.

No living creature in the history of the world has had a default setting of physical comfort. Too much comfort is an early grave. Comfort has its place, but modern life is making it too easy to be a lazy, overweight loser. “Oh, it’s my genes\!” No, it’s the cake. Plus the only exercise you get is going to the fridge to get it.

Think of running for the bus as earning your calories. Think of physical work as hunting for your food. Think of cycling fifty miles as tracking an antelope. Climbing trees, jumping over walls, running up stairs, fighting, throwing, sprinting – they’re reproducing things your ancient ancestors had to do to survive Again; you have to *expend your calories to get calories* because the modern environment no longer forces you do it. The closest to a wild environment is being in a Street Gang, with its periods of inaction and intense action, adrenaline, and psychological danger. This is because young people are still wild. Yet people say that is wrong. Society doesn’t like wildness. It’s scared by it. It will stop you from being wild. It wants you to conform, but as soon as you conform, your life-force and spirit is dead.

Make your normal life physically harder. *Purposely*, create physical challenges and expend energy. Run for the bus, run across the road, jump walls; whatever – you do it

because you can. You do it because you are recreating a wild environment. You do it because the fossils around you can’t, and you don’t want to be like them.

**National Slipper Index**.

Do you live in a part of the City where women \(and old men\) go to the local shops in their slippers? What’s the area like? I’m not talking about student areas or university towns but areas where usual people live.

There’s an ex-fishing town \(now a wasteland\) on the east coast of England. The women go to the shops in their *pyjamas*. What’s that about? Can’t they afford clothes? There seems to be variations of this in every country - apart from Norway, which is fucking perfect. We need a National Slipper Index. There are apps you can use when you’re looking to move to a different area - they provide local information such as pollution, crime levels, amount of green spaces, types of schools, and so on; why not an app which gives stats on how many locals do their shopping in slippers? It would tell you everything you need to know about an area. You can take avoidance measures. But if you * had* to go into an area of many slippers, you can make sure you are prepared for any problems which may arise. A mask to filter out the cigarette and dope smoke. Anti-zombie spray. Samurai sword. Different currencies for the local shop. A language translation app set to ‘local inbred’. A mirror so you don’t need to look directly at anyone’s face. An extra pair of lungs. Glucose tablets and an EpiPen.

If you live in an area with a high slipper rating, your aim should be to move. It is better to live in ‘shit-house in nice-area’ than ‘nice-house in shit-area’; this is because you can improve your house, but you can’t improve your area. If you live in shit-area, shit will *always* come to your door.

There is nothing intrinsically bad about slippers. But they should be worn inside not outside. Slippers are good in the right environment but evil in the wrong environment.

You think this is a joke? It isn’t. High slipper areas are associated with more crime, more violence, more pollution, more heart disease, more lung disease, worse shops and more junk food outlets. Get out.

**Stop Being ‘Nice’ **

**TEST** – There are times to be nice, and times not to rock the boat for the sake of harmony. That’s understandable. You don’t want disagreements all the time. Live and let live, and all that. Now, for the next six months, every time someone talks shit you don’t agree with – tell them in no uncertain terms that you don’t agree. Don’t let it

ride for the sake of ‘niceness’. After all, they are bending your ears back with their views, did you ask for that? It’s rude.

What are the benefits of this?

*Firstly*, it stops people talking crap to you and taking you for granted. They learn not to spew verbal diarrhea in your direction. *Secondly*, if you don’t actively disagree with them they may believe you *actually agree with them*, it reinforces their delusions. So you’ll be doing them a favour. *Thirdly*, it teaches you how to deal with confrontation and ‘uncomfortable situations’. Many people are nice, not because they *are* nice, but that they’re scared of making a scene. So they end up listening to endless drivel from idiots. That’s not good; it harms you, wastes your time, and offends your dead ancestors who fought against fascism. *Fourth\(ly\), * once you get used to this, it’s fun; in fact it’s hilarious. Watch their reactions. You are doing something they hardly ever come across in polite society. They can’t handle it.

## Gluten Free 

A while back I bumped into an old friend I hadn’t seen for years. She was pushing a pale-looking ginger kid in a pram. After the usual stuff people say when they meet someone they haven’t seen for a long time, she got talking about the diet of her two-year old son \[When most people have young kids they can’t stop talking about them, they don’t realize that people with no kids find that more boring than watching paint dry\]. “I think Timmy is gluten intolerant so I don’t give him normal biscuits, I have to buy him gluten-free biscuits. But they are three times more expensive than normal biscuits\!” Being contrary, I asked her why she was wasting her money. “Why are you buying gluten-free biscuits? He doesn’t need *any* biscuits”. Of course, she couldn’t process this in her post-birth shrunken brain. She looked at me as if I had said, “your child comes from Venus”. What I said was *preposterous* to her. What sort of monster wouldn’t give their child biscuits? This made me a Nazi.

The truth is *always* preposterous to people who are stuck in zombie world. They have lived one life, it’s impossible for them to accept that the fundamental realities of how they live and what believe, is just a construct.

Life shouldn’t be gluten-free, it should be free of the things which contain gluten, not those fucking things with the gluten taken out. Gluten is the name for a group of proteins found in cereal grains - just stop eating cereals, you don’t need them\! They’re non-essential. In the same way, you should drop the shit from your life, not replace it with a lesser version of shit. Even in small quantities, shit smells like shit. If you hate employment, earning more money won’t make it better. Money if you’re in a prison is

pretty useless. Maybe you can burn it to keep warm or wipe your arse if you run out of bog roll.

If you have read the first Gang Fit you know that the fastest way to improve your life is to get rid of all the stuff you hate. Get rid of it\! It doesn’t matter if other people don’t mind it \(or like it\), *if you hate it*, that’s all that matters. Even if you are the only person on earth who hates it.

Don’t be stuck in Timmy’s mum’s world. The idea of not giving her son biscuits was so ridiculous to her, that she paid three times as much to buy gluten free ones. This is how far humanity has come – from hunter-gatherers who caught and slaughtered wild animals, drank their blood, and lived under the stars - to weak, brain-dead individuals who give their dopey looking kids gluten-free biscuits.

It’s more important to be idiot free than gluten free. Whatever is not good for you, *don’t accept any of it*. No person, teacher, institution or government has the authority to tell you otherwise.

## Circuit Training 

### *What’s good about circuit training: *

1 Anyone can do it

2 You don’t need a gym

3 Equipment isn’t necessary

4 It costs nothing

5 It can varied in a zillion ways

7 You can make it easy or brutally hard

*What’s bad about circuit training: *

1 Nothing

Circuits are old-skool, and new-skool. They’re like an exercise version of a bicycle –

something which is old but also something of the present and future. Circuit training has lasted the test of time.

For the non-athlete wanting to get fit circuit training is the bomb. Doing a circuit once a week is a quick and compact way of working out. Any type of exercise can be included, it’s only limited by your imagination. Circuits can be varied according to your desired outcome; focusing on heart rate, endurance, strength endurance, lactic tolerance, whatever. You can use weights, medicine balls, resistance bands, any

equipment you like - or just body weight. Body parts can be targeted; I’ve done circuits using only six different waist exercises, an absolute killer - for a week, every time I coughed my waist hurt. It was great. You can add in sprints, shadow boxing, anything you like.

*Here’s a suggestion: *

1st Set

Push-Ups x 20

Tuck Jumps x 10

Chinnies x 20

Mountain climbs x 36

2nd Set

Bench Dips x 40

Barbell curls x 10

Burpees x 10

Waist \(variations\) x 20

3rd Set

Barbell Shoulder Press x 10

Split Jumps x 24

Side Raises x 20 \(each side\)

Push-Ups x 20

Chinnies x 20

\[Each set is performed three times over with a few seconds between each exercise.

The rest interval between sets is five minutes\]

In your mission to get fitter, stronger, and dynamically robust, it is a mistake to *only* to concentrate on a few gym exercises such as squats, deadlifts, and shoulder press.

Whilst they are excellent exercises for strength, they are not enough for systemic health. In fact, if you lived in China and the government declared, “you can only do *one* type of exercise twice a week, or you’ll be tortured, cooked, and eaten” – you should choose circuits over the ‘big three’ gym exercises. It would better for your overall health. Don’t be a meathead.

Note: If you’re not sure what these exercises are, you have the Internet FFS – look them up\! People have access to 90% of the world’s information online, yet they still ask dumb questions.

## Coping Strategies 

****

Living in a shithole part of London I realised I’d been using coping strategies to get by. The effect of these strategies was to block-out or neutralise the crap around me by *injecting life with beauty. * Why do I use the word ‘beauty’ in a book called Gang Fit?

Because if you have no beauty in life, it’s not worth living. Existing in a grey ugly world eventually turns a person into a dead being, deprived of magic. You should be inheriting the world and creating something fucking amazing – that’s beautiful.

Although life is improved more by removing the shit rather than spraying it with perfume \(i.e. leaving a job you hate rather than alleviating it by earning more\) sometimes, temporarily, you may have no choice – you get stuck in a rut for a while.

Whilst walking through shit town I’d decide to only take notice of the flowers and trees – touching them, smelling them, seeing the type of insects they attracted. I must have looked like a weirdo. I challenged myself to identify the trees from looking only at their outline, the bark, or by the shape of their leaves. With my eyes closed I taught myself to identify the birch, oak, ash and willow just from the *smell* of their leaves.

This had a completely immersive effect, blocking out the grime, rubbish and bullshit around me. On social media I’d post photos of the different types of leaves I’d picked; and the nuts and fruit which Nature \(even in shit town\) had supplied.

Use whatever coping strategies you need. Look forwards to a better reality. Have a goal, objective, or some type of dedication you can be absorbed in. This is not denying reality but transporting yourself to a better world – a world you will one day create. A coping strategy does two things; it blocks out any shit you may be surrounded by \(a force field\); and it allows you to concentrate on your plans without anything dragging you down.

## Kid Conquers World 

****

I knew a kid who conquered the world.

I first met him at a theatre in a boring provincial town. He was one of the ensemble dancers in a Christmas pantomime. He loved dance; that was his world. He did poorly at school, he wasn’t academic. His real dad wasn’t around. His mum had taken him to the local dance school at an early age.

One day I read a report in the local newspaper that he had appeared at the local magistrates’ court. An argument with his step-father had turned physical. I don’t know what the outcome of the court appearance was - however, this is what finally gave him the motivation to escape from the cage of his background and the

nothingness of ‘boring town’ - a place where the only aspiration was to have a fish, chips and mushy peas on a Friday night. A place where a treat was to have a two-course meal at the out-of-town supermarket cafeteria. *So he escaped*. He hardly had any money, but he moved to the Big City. This is where a dancer should be - there was no point being the best dancer in a small town. He stayed with friends in a small flat. He went to dance studios for classes. He met other dancers. He signed up with a city agency. Every spare moment he was dancing. He posted his own dance videos \(which he choreographed\) on social media. Because he was talented, dedicated and hard-working, his agent soon got him jobs as a commercial dancer. When he wasn’t working and earning good money, he was busy connecting with other dancers, producing dynamic and original dance videos. He didn’t stop. He was creating a new life. Every now and then he would go back to Boring Town to see old friends and family – it was like a different world, it had nothing for him. When someone *escapes* their background, they may revisit for a while, but eventually they never return – it is dead to them.

As time went on, the work he got was better paid; he got jobs abroad – eventually, he got a position in a show which toured the world. Even then he was still posting his own dance videos from the places he was at, China, the US, Spain…. When the show’s tour came to an end he moved to New York, he met more dancers, did more videos, and got more work. Agents saw his videos on social media, they went to him, he didn’t need to go to them. He started getting jobs with globally known singers, dancing in their videos, and next to them on stage. He was travelling the world, earning a load of money and having the time of his life.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

The point of this is that he didn’t stop. He went from a normal background, doing Christmas performances at Boring Town dance school \(where it all started\), to travelling the world doing the stuff he loved. The bridge from one to the other was crazy energy, focus, and unrelenting determination.

*What happened*:

- His mother had introduced something to him he became good at. None of their family had done dance, so it was sheer luck \(or maybe she had seen something in him\). Many kids go to dance school, but don’t amount to much. They do it for a few years, as a hobby more than anything else – something to do on a Saturday morning.

When they leave normal school they get a normal job, any dance aspirations they may have jettisoned for peanuts from paid employment \[Their aspirations were weak or non-existent. Their parents never had any real dance expectations of them.\] Our Kid though was different; he was good, really good, and he had real aspirations.

- A *negative* experience was the final push to change his life. Something bad was the seed for something good. Being too comfortable is deadly; people who are too comfortable don’t change their lives. Change comes from desire, being ‘satisfied’

kills desire. This is why Gang Fit advises you to *go out and create hardship for* *yourself* if hardship doesn’t find you. Hardship will kill you or make you change your life. One of the quickest ways to induce it is to quit your job now. Employment is a drug which murders self-improvement. Note: Steer clear of comfortably employed people, they exist in a different universe. They have nothing for you. Outside work they talk about normal shit; shit which has no bearing on creating something amazing.

You can’t tell them your aspirations, plans, and ambitions – they don’t understand them. They are a drain on your energy. The foundation of their world is enslavement.

- He realized there was no point being a big fish in a small pond. The world can’t be conquered that way. Being the captain of an ocean-going ship isn’t the same as being the captain of a paper-boat on a puddle. So, he moved to the City. He didn’t have much money, but that didn’t stop him. Not having enough money is the most pathetic, bullshit reason that the majority of individuals use for why they can’t get on.

- The environment he moved to was where the opportunities were. Looking for water in the desert is dumb. Move out the desert\! Further, he met like-minded people with the same energy and drive as him. A virtuous circle.

- Whilst he was employed on jobs he still grew his own world. This is the opposite to what the normal person does – they’re employed, and in their off time they watch Netflix. Their lives will always be in the hands of other people.

- The world is full of talented people who never get anywhere. I have met some of them \(you will as well\), they’re pathetic - full of excuses and made-up reasons why they never amounted to much. They are sick making. Apparently, they had a more difficult time than anybody else, as if life had made *their* lives uniquely hard. They are neither self-aware nor aware of anyone else’s life. Our Kid had a talent, what made him diverge from the unfulfilled talent was that *he never stopped. *

* *

So, if you have come from a crap environment, full of hardship and negativity that comfortable people will never understand, you have been given a gift, a gift which it is the fuel for your hatred, anger and dissatisfaction. It is the energy you need to conquer the world.

## 99 Cent Shop 

If you visit New York \(or any city\), as well as doing the usual tourist stuff; go to the 99Cent stores. Hang around for a while. Look at the products on the shelves, What are

they selling? What are people buying? What do the shoppers look like? What do the staff look like? What overall impression do you get? These places are fascinating –

you can learn more here than at three years of university. Pick up a multi-pack of potato-chips and go through check-out. \[You can feed them to the pigeons outside.

The local authority doesn’t like that; they view pigeons as no more than dirty tree-rats that spread germs. But have you ever caught a cold from a pigeon? Fuck no. Humans spread more germs. Pigeons are clever modern dinosaurs with personality – watch the interaction between them. You notice that some have rings around their legs?\]

What you’ll learn by going to these stores is difficult to say, but you’ll learn something – something which should stick in your mind. It is fuel for your plans and ambitions. Here’s the point: Very often the most important things can’t be easily explained or written down like a ‘how to guide’. It’s the random shit that’s important.

If you want to be a writer, some morons will say, “take a writing course”, as if that’s going to help. It’s complete bollocks. Writing courses are for people whose writing is boring shit. If you want to be a writer, visit bars at 3am, strike up conversations with the regulars in greasy spoon diners, visit the Amazon rainforest, climb a mountain, fight with people, go to parties, visit prisons – all of that will make you a better writer than doing a writing course. In other words, the way to get somewhere or achieve something is not through the obvious predictable way. This is why a business degree won’t make you any better at business - it doesn’t cover the real realities of business.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

As a thinking person you should have a love/hate view of the 99Cent Store. If you *only* hate them you’re missing something about the richness of human life. If you *only* love them - you are going nowhere. Life should be viewed as an experiment - 99Cent stores are a petri-dish of humanity, a slice of life you can learn from. Some people will say that “viewing life as an experiment” is cold and heartless, they’re idiots –

taking yourself out of the equation and viewing the world through action, inaction, feedback and consequence is the way to change your world. *Creating a different life* *is driven by intense emotion, not lack of emotion* – you refuse to accept an enslaved existence. You think an Olympic athlete is emotionless? Of course not; desire is their rocket fuel - but they focus that desire into a training program, forensic in its application. Don’t listen to people who say you’re heartless if you *apparently* have no emotions, they’re the shallow ones.

Two things which will help you to succeed in life are understanding yourself and understanding other people. Understanding doesn’t mean that you empathise with people, why should you? Only that you understand why they think like they do, what motivates them \(or doesn’t\). In the same way, you shouldn’t *empathise with yourself*, that makes you someone who can’t see the world for what it is. Don’t feel sorry for yourself, or make excuses why you think, or do, dumb shit.

People visit the city and only see the tourist stuff, the good things – but this is only a small part of the real city. Visit the 99Cent stores.

The same principle applies to places where rich people shop. They’re full of wankers

– but they’re fascinating, with cool things that money can buy, and people who are empowered by money. You should view those places the same way you view the 99Cent store. Everything is a learning opportunity.

**TASK** - For the next month visit places where people at the financial ends of the spectrum shop, eat, or collect in their clone-like groups. View them as data for analysis. Stop any emotions you have about these people; emotions colour your judgment. Most people been educated and brainwashed into thinking there is only the world of work and all that stuff. That exists, but its relevance to you is minimal; it is only one of a million worlds. As a young person you should see the worlds of other people. Expose yourself to their reality.

If you think you don’t have enough money to go to places where rich people collect, you’re wrong – you don’t need money, just confidence. You can go to any rich shop, art gallery or similar, for free. Restaurants or clubs cost some money but you can spend the minimum amount. Warning: Don’t suck up to wealthy people - that makes you a prick. You have no dignity. Even if you become wealthy, you’ll still be a prick.

You don’t deserve Gang Fit. It will self-destruct in your hands.

**Money Is More Powerful Than Heroin – And You Know What People Do To Get Heroin **

The first place I bought in the City was the size of postage stamp. I bought it via a crooked mortgage broker \(they’re all crooked\). The finance industry is chock-full of criminals, bent as a fifteen-bob note. When you have an industry based on making money from giving other people money, even a monkey in a suit is given money. I found the broker through a crooked solicitor who owned fifteen properties which he was getting tax relief on, even though the Law was you could only claim tax relief on one property.

I was only young but realised that the world outside school was nothing like they had taught me.

The flat I bought was in a shit part of the city - the only locals I liked were the foxes that regularly raided the rubbish bins. All the young guys owned ‘devil dogs’. My next door neighbour was a prostitute who kept open hours. All the shop fronts had metal grills. I left after a year. \[Note: Only shit people like living in shit areas. There’s no point living in a nice house if outside is drug and crime infested. If you grew up in an area like this, move out as soon as you can. It is far better having a crap property in

a nice area than the reverse. If you live in a troubled area, the trouble will enter through your front door, walk up your stairs, and shit on your front room carpet – you won’t be able to avoid it\]

Some years and three properties later I wanted to buy a house, but had no money and was ‘unemployable’. I went to see a broker I had become friendly with, he worked for a well-known international finance company; “Hi, good to see you, how can I help?”

“I need a mortgage for a house”. He asked, “How much is it?” I told him I needed

£300k but didn’t earn a wage. “No problem. I can get it for you. You need three years self-employed accounts but I can sort that out for you”.

A couple weeks later I was invited to posh place in an exclusive part of London where company directors, puffed-up business people, and entrepreneurs hang out. My broker friend introduced to an accountant he knew. After a half-hour chat and expensive coffees, the accountant said he would prepare some accounts for me. Easy as that. He was no doubt doing a favour for my broker friend, or getting a cut of the commission he would earn on the mortgage. I moved into the house eight weeks later. Everyone happy; me, the seller, the broker, the accountant, the solicitor \(who did the *conveyancing*, a fancy word for ‘money for old rope’\), and, of course, the finance company \(who had increased their assets and market share – the reason they overlook mortgage ‘irregularities’\).

I could go on and on with stories like this.

Note: A market where everyone profits, takes on a life of its own. It generates its own momentum. Part of that market will be based on fraud, an open secret overlooked by everyone with something to gain. The only thing which ‘corrects’ a market like this is some sort of Government intervention, reversal of confidence or zombie apocalypse.

The experts who tell you, “the fundamentals are sound”, are taking through their A-holes. There are *no fundamentals* in a market like this. Once you have enough money to buy \(or credit finance\) land and property as an investment, don’t be a sucker and believe the ride will never reverse. Get *your fundamentals* right whatever the state of the market.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Money is a zillion times more powerful than heroin. It’s the strongest drug in the world. The world is addicted to it. Every industry that deals with large amounts of money has corruption flowing through its veins. Any individual who has large amounts of money has done dodgy shit, lied, and hidden things from the law and tax agencies. Don’t believe *anyone* who says they haven’t. This isn’t only people with a lot of money. Even the plumber, builder, taxi driver and gardener are evading as much tax as they can.

People *kill* to get money. People *prostitute* themselves to get money. People go to *prison* because of money. Friends and families *fall out* because of money. The ironic thing is that the pursuit of money creates slavery more than having money creates freedom. People are enslaved to money. It’s the only addiction that all of society encourages.

Money has the power to transform your life in a good way *or* a bad way.

Negative:

1 You sell your soul, your principles, your mother, your positive relationships – to get it.

2 You are not grounded when you make it. You act like a prick. You think you’re most important person on the planet. You waste it all on shit. This happens to some people who win the lottery; they go from zero, to hero, then back to zero. Essentially they were always zero.

Positive:

1 As you earn/make it, you grow as a person. You learn your own strengths and weaknesses. You strengthen the relationships with people you care about.

2 The alleviation of the problems caused by poverty. You share it with the people and things you care about – you ‘payback’ the people who encouraged and supported you.

You use it to improve your life and create opportunity for others.

3 Travel the world. Experience life in the way people without money can’t. Live out your childhood dreams – cross the world’s oceans in a boat; take a rocket to the moon; fishing for Mahseer in the rapids of an Indian river.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Some rich people say that “money doesn’t make you happy”. Take no notice of that, what the rich idiot really means is *money hasn’t made them happy. * Money hasn’t made them happy because they are not grounded individuals who know themselves.

Money has the power to make you *very happy* if you’re already a person who has sorted out their shit, come to terms with reality, and knows what’s important. Money takes away all the problems that lack of money creates. That automatically makes you happier, but it won't bring back your dead child.

Having severe money problems is far better than having severe non-money problems.

Sort out the important shit; money will be additive – it will make you happier. Don’t sort out your shit – money will only make you happier for a while.

****

## Garbage Protection Mechanism 

****

All the world’s oxygen comes from plants. All the world’s bullshit comes from idiots.

You need to protect yourself from idiots.

A mate who was in the South African army, told me about ‘suppressing the enemy’.

The military call it *suppressive fire* or *covering fire* - there are technical differences, but essentially it’s a tactic for stopping the enemy from doing something; attacking, advancing, or trying to kill you or a member of your group. It involves bombarding extreme amounts of bullets or artillery at \(or in the general direction of\) the enemy.

The shit-tonne of metal is so intense that the enemy doesn’t dare poke its ugly head out of its cover, let alone return fire. This strategy is used *because it’s effective*. That’s all that matters. If it wasn’t, the military wouldn’t use it – those fuckers are pragmatic, they know the harsh reality of war, something the normal person has no concept of.

Nice people get eaten up when things get nasty.

Childhood example: You know as a kid, when someone was lecturing you or talking rubbish, you put your fingers in your ears and started singing? The louder they spoke, the louder you sang? This was done for two reasons:

1 To block out their garbage

2 To *show them* you were blocking out their garbage This was pretty effective, as well as being hilarious. Kids naturally know about the idea of suppression - the military didn’t invent it.

There are times as adult when you should employ your *garbage protection strategies*.

The aim is to stop a person bending your ear back with verbal garbage. Note: Suppression is just one strategy for stopping someone from doing something. There are others.

**TASK – **The next time someone is spewing bullshit in your direction, try these:

- Start humming to yourself

- Look them in the eyes for five seconds; slowly turn your head - walk away

- Pretend to have a heart attack

- Start choking

- Cough loudly in their face

- Suddenly shout, “Look at that\!” whilst pointing to the sky. Then run off

- Start doing interpretive dance

- Punch them in the stomach

- Change the subject, when they’re mid-sentence

- Pretend you’ve got a notification on your phone

- Say you need to visit the toilet urgently

- Hold your palm in front of their face \(‘talk to the hand’\)

- Most effective is just to tell them to “fuck off”

Whatever; enjoy yourself. Make up your own techniques. Don’t be concerned with what the other person thinks - they’re adding to the world’s supply of bullshit, and harming the planet.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Some people say, “if you have to raise your voice when you argue, you’ve lost the argument”. That’s all well and good in their fantasy world, but it’s tripe in the real world; the world where, ‘he who uses greater force wins’. Sound is a force; it destroyed the Wall of Jericho. Really loud sounds make people cower; it stops them in their tracks. If shouting loud \(and being “aggressive”\) stops the bullshit of someone else, you have won, regardless of who is right or wrong. You have come out on top.

People also say, “if you resort to violence you have lost the argument” - again, in reasonable world that may be right, but in the real world if someone is threatening, abusing or trying to intimidate you, and you give them a slap - you have won if it stops them.

Normal people who tell you how to behave are trying to control you – those same people will view what Gang Fit says as “encouraging violence”. Listen, if you go round being verbally and physically aggressive to innocent people you are a moron; eventually you will pay for your stupidity; and you’ll deserve it – you’ll get nowhere in life. But it is perfectly acceptable to get physical, or show signs of aggression \(i.e.

make your feelings *unequivocally* clear\) if people are trying to dominate and abuse you. In the situation where someone is potentially going to be violent to you or your loved ones, taking them out first *reduces* potential violence. Violence against them is far better than violence against you. Your fist will be a garbage disposal mechanism.

Pretty obvious if you have a brain. Don’t listen to people who don’t know the realities of war.

Avoid, suppress, or neutralise the unwarranted garbage that comes in your direction.

The bonus is that if you do it now, you’ll get less of it in the future.

****

****

## You Can Be A Flop 

You see former elite athletes on television breaking down the technical reasons a current elite athlete is the best in the world. There are three problems with this: 1/ It doesn't take into account the thousands of athletes \(who are 'invisible'\) who may have the same technique but are nowhere near the best in the world; 2/ at some stage a better athlete will come along a with a different technique; 3/ they may be the best in

the world *in spite* of having a faulty technique. In other words, the elite athlete on TV

is talking bullshit. Be careful believing ‘experts’. It can make you an idiot.

In the track and field event of Shot Put there are two techniques for putting the shot, the glide and the spin. Whichever is used, the goal is to putt the shot with maximum velocity at the optimal angle of release \(~ 45 degrees\). Which technique the shot putter uses is dependent on their size and power; and their ability to perfect the more complicated spin technique. The point is that two *completely different techniques* are used for the same end – putting the shot as far as possible.

In tennis, there are three stances: closed, open and semi-open. Players use whatever one suits them. World-class players use different techniques for the same end; how the racquet face interacts with the ball. One could argue that a player may have been taught a particular technique \(say, a single-handed backhand\) but could have been better using a different technique \(a double-handed backhand\) – we’ll never know.

Some sprinters are *made worse* by the application of techniques and training which don’t suit them. Destroyed by bad coaches.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

At the 1968 Mexico Olympics, a little-known athlete, Dick Fosbury, took the athletics world by storm when he won the gold medal and broke the world record with a 2.24m \(7ft 4ins\) high jump. He had invented a technique which no other athlete was using.

The *Fosbury Flop* is now is used by every competitive high-jumper in the World.

Previous to this Fosbury had been a fucking average high jumper\! At that time the three techniques used to clear the high jump bar were the scissors, western roll, and straddle jump.

Then this happened.

****

Up until the 1960s, high jump athletes had to land on hard ground \(sand, sawdust or thin mats\). This meant that, whatever technique was used to clear bar, athletes had to ensure they landed on their feet. However, Lady Fortuna favoured Fosbury when his high school became one of the first to install deep foam matting for the high jump landing. This change gave him the opportunity to try new ways to clear the bar without having to land on his feet. So, he used a technique which felt natural to him, and which he was good at – *a natural fit*. Instead of facing forwards, he used his opposite leg and jumped the bar backwards. He created athletics history, and went from a nobody to an Olympic gold medalist.

- Shot Put: Two techniques

- Tennis: Multiple techniques

- High Jump: A change in the ‘environment’ allowed for a different technique.

Note: Tumblers and acrobats can clear a high jump bar well over the world record height. However, the rules of the event don’t allow for two-footed take-offs. If the rules were changed a whole new technique and type of athlete would dominate.

Despite what people tell you, there are no rules in real life – just action, inaction, reaction, and feedback.

*The point is:*

1 Find what you’re good at

2 If you can't find it, create it

3 If you’re not good at anything \(very unlikely\), get good at something 4 A change in circumstances creates opportunities – some may happen to suit your talents. Keep your eyes open

5 Respect ways of doing things, but don’t be limited by them. Sport has multiple techniques for getting things done. How many techniques and ways do you think *real* *life * has?

6 Smash up low-level people who say *you * can’t achieve something. They’re keeping you down. Your worst enemy.

## Vegetables Are Poison 

****

****

Many vegetables taste like vomit. You’ve been told to eat them because “they’re good for you”. They contain vitamins, minerals, fibre, and other beneficial and brain boosting trace elements. Well, this may be true but it’s only half the story. They are also poison.

All plants are engaged in a form of chemical warfare because, like all living things, they want to pass on their DNA. This is contained in the fruit, flower, nut, or seed.

The plant will encourage the animals or insects that help in this process and discourage the animals that harm it. The encouragement is in the form of sweet tasting fruit, nectar and so on. The discouragement in the form of foul, bitter tasting or poisonous leaves. Some animals have developed digestive processes that neutralise the toxins whereas others may be harmed by them. Sometimes animals will purposely eat a plant they wouldn’t normally eat to make themselves sick if they have a stomach bug.

Brain-dead nutritionists, dieticians and health ‘experts’ go on about the benefits of vegetables without even realising that part of those benefits come from the small amounts of poison or toxins they contain which makes our body stronger. The reverse is also true, some people cannot tolerate the natural ‘pesticides’, anti-feedants and phytochemicals in certain vegetables. Once again we have example of what you’re being taught at school, college, or in your ‘nutrition’ module at university, making you an educated idiot, unable to see the complete picture. Vegetables are good for some people, harmful to others. Forget about the experts who say they’re good for you because of this or that reason.

The next time someone dishes you up inedible cabbage, ask them “why the fuck have you put that *poison* on my plate\!”

## True Story 

There was this kid. He was very fast. He was the fastest kid in his primary school.

Then he was the fastest kid in his high school. Then he was the fastest kid in the city.

Then he was the fastest junior sprinter in the country. Then he was the fastest junior sprinter of all-time in the country. By the time he was a senior sprinter he had run 10.15 seconds for 100 metres. He was super-fast. If he had been a footballer, rugby player, NFL star or baseball player – he would have been the fastest in the world in those sports. But he was a sprinter. He had a bedroom full of medals and trophies. His parents had the most important ones on the mantelpiece in their front room. They were proud of him. He thought the world was his oyster. He was still only 21.

He trained hard for the next three years but his 100m time didn’t improve; if anything things got worse; he was getting injuries and niggles. He began to realise he was near the limits of his ability. He had one or two faster wind-aided times \(not allowable in the rules of competition\), which gave him the feel of what it was like to run near 10

Flat. This kept him going in the hope that he would run just as fast with a legal wind.

He never did. He was still fast enough to represent his country at the Olympics – the pinnacle of an athlete’s life. One day he got the call-up to wear his country’s vest.

He’d come a long way since running against his mates at primary school.

Now he was at the Olympics. He easily made it through the early heats. He got through to the quarter-finals. The tension and excitement was building. Like many athletes at the Olympics, he couldn’t sleep. In the quarters he just managed to scrape through as a fastest loser; he had messed up the start \(normally his strong point\), this had put him a metre behind - but he kept relaxed and focused, and regained some of the lost ground. What a relief\!

Two days later he was in his blocks at the start line of the Summer Olympics 100m semi-final, the biggest moment in his career. The starter’s gun went off, he got a great start. He accelerated smoothly and came upright slowly, like a plane taking off, He was running well. Then something he had never experience before happened. At 40

metres one of the competitors rocketed past him as if he was standing still. What the fuck; what the actual *fuck*?\! The guy was creating a bigger gap every second, there was nothing our sprinter could do – he just kept repeating in his head, “stay relaxed, stay relaxed; concentrate on your own race\!” However, he had tightened up - this made him slow down; only a little, but enough to make him feel he was battling his own body. His finishing time was 10.25, not bad under the circumstances, but he hadn’t qualified for the final. The winner of the race \(who went on to win the gold medal\) had run a *mind-bending 9.68 seconds* – over half a second faster, and fifteen feet ahead.

Half a second is a chasm in the 100m sprint. Financially, it’s the difference between being a multimillionaire or surviving on peanuts. Competitively, it’s a different beast.

This one experience smashed our sprinter. He realized he would never achieve that sort of level, He had witnessed the pinnacle of sprinting and it wasn’t him - he wasn’t even fucking close. What was the point of sweating blood; killing himself in all weathers, just to run 10flat? Even *that* wasn’t guaranteed.

He was only 25 years old when he quit. Even though he had a career that most sprinters would die for, and a house full of trophies to show for it, he felt like a loser –

*he didn’t even feel fast anymore. *

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

In your quest to conquer the world, remember you are conquering *your* world. What other people do is none of your business. It’s out of your control. You are creating something unique to you. When you start diverging from the pack, some of your friends won’t like it, it sticks in their throat that you are doing well, not them. Now, the same goes for you; there will *alway* s be someone more successful, better looking, better at sport; a better artist, a better singer - someone with a better physique, whatever. That’s life. That doesn’t make you a loser

The fool wants status, but they’ll always be someone with a higher status. You shouldn’t be bothered about status. If you meet someone who tries to laud their status over you, feel free to smash them up. That will knock the ‘status’ out of them.

*Postscript*: After a few years, our sprinter came to terms with his experience – he wasn’t a loser. Sprinting had given him a good life. He had met all sorts of wonderful people; it had taken him around the world. He’d had the privilege to represent his country in the world’s most prestigious sporting event. That was the past – now, he had a new life ahead of him.

## Physical Standards 

****

These targets are straightforward and no bullshit. They’re not complicated. These are not elite standards, but achieving all five would likely take you into the top 1% of the population. You’d be in tremendous physical shape.

****

****

**1 Deadlift**: One-rep max of 2 x body weight \(general strength\) **2 Chin-ups**: 20 \(usable upper body strength\)

**3 100m sprint**: Under 13 seconds \(speed\)

**4 One mile**: Under 6 minutes \(endurance\)

**5 Body-fat**: 10-12% - a six-pack is just visible \(health\) The most challenging for an older person \(60yrs\+\) to achieve is a sub-13sec sprint; sub-14secs would be more appropriate \(the others are not *too* difficult\). Retaining the ability, as you age, to generate dynamic muscular contractions provides solid information about the general physical state of the muscles, tendons, ligaments and nerves. If you can do it *without a warm-up*, even better. Being able to turn on strength, quickness and agility without any warm-up is the pure expression of youth.

There are different health tests a person can do: In a *clinic/lab* – blood tests, biomarker tests, blood pressure, heart rate, scans; in a *gym* - stress tests, body fat, VO2 max, and so on. That’s all well and good, but these five simple performance tests you can do yourself and are easy to measure. Physical performance is an excellent indicator of the general health of the body.

There is no point adding in more target categories – vertical high jump, rowing ability, back-flips, and so on, as it’s the *engine* in the car that ultimately determines performance not what the car can be used for. The five categories give us a global view of the state of the ‘engine’. That’s enough.

****

**The Super-Adaptoid \(You\) **

****

****

****

****

****

The ‘**Super-Adaptoid’** was a character who first appeared in the *Tales of Suspense* in the 1960’s. An android created by *A.I.M. * \( *Advanced Idea Mechanics***\)**, containing a shard of the *Cosmic Cube*. He had the ability to take on the powers of any one he came across. He fought the original X-Men by using their abilities against them.

If you have an excellent base level of strengths you become a human version of the Super-Adaptoid, you can turn your hand to other activities – you have an inbuilt advantage.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Dynamic strength and physical health not only helps you cope with one-off short-term emergences; you’re being chased by zombies, Arsenal fans, or the Fuzz, but also with foreseeable and unforeseeable long-term risks. The foreseeable long-term risk is old age and all the illness and negative health shit that comes with it. Note: Even though old age is foreseeable \(barring accidents, lion attacks, and deadly viruses\) and will happen to the majority of people – most individuals ignore it, then those fuckers are surprised when they get a heart attack. Unforeseeable long-term risks are just that –

maybe a volcano eruption, meteor strike, nuclear war; who knows?

Short-term risks we can all understand. Long-term risks many people tend to ignore.

The way to see what the long-term health risks are is to look at people older than yourself. What do they look like? There’s your long-term risk. Good health is your risk reduction. It’s your Life Insurance Policy. Your physical ability to cope with everyday life and extreme events, fights, disasters and war is absolutely essential. The robustness of a biological system is marked by its ability to cope with \(or thrive from\) variation. Life is a stress test; age is a stress test, random events are stress tests. Banks are subject to stress tests to see if they can cope with fluctuations and extreme situations. If the banks fail the test they are instructed to increase their cash reserves, so they can ride out any future storm. Your ‘reserves’ to survive life’s stress tests are physical strength and robust health.

Many physically lazy, weak and unfit people can cope when times are comfortable; they’ve engineered their lives around comfort. But when some extreme shit hits the fan, which it *always* does, they’re dead. The body can’t cope; it’s pushed beyond its abilities.

## 1st Law of Cybernetics 

In his book, *An Introduction to Cybernetics* \(1956\), Ross Ashby introduced his *‘Law* *of Requisite Variety’*. This is the 1st Law of Cybernetics. Ashby was primarily interested in homeostasis; the way in which complex systems, operating in changing environments, succeed in maintaining equilibrium within tightly defined limits.

Simply put, his law proposed that if a system is to be able to deal successfully with the diversity of challenges that its environment produces, then it needs to have a range of responses which is \(at least\) as varied as the problems thrown up by the environment. You can see how this applies to our own capabilities. In order to be able to deal with the variety of challenges and events that life presents, you need to have physiological, metabolic, nervous and psychological systems which have the capability to cope with variation and random events.

Again: Only having a physically comfortable life means you will get wiped out in an emergency because your body has lost its ability to deal with anything uncomfortable.

You need to purposely add in ‘extremes’ - high intensity training, resistance work, high heart rates, and other physically demanding activities.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Unless you are training for a competitive sport you don’t need to do as much as you think for outstanding health \(see ‘Gang Fit Part One’ for a discussion about *minimum* *effective dose*\). Doing too much will mean you get the ‘plods’ – you’ll have no physical or mental energy, and your legs will feel heavy and sore. That’s no state to be in. The whole point about exercise is that you should feel super-great most of the time not super-fatigued. This is rarely a problem that arises for the normal person. Joe

Public are physically lazy, they do anything to avoid physical discomfort. But if you’re * really* motivated, make sure you don’t go overboard. Training for competitive sport is different; you have to bust your balls, almost to the point of falling apart \(which is what eventually happens to all long-term athletes\).

Warning: *Do not become a health and exercise bore*. Boring people deserve to be locked in prison. They kill happy people with their monotonous shit. Listening to a boring person is a window into what death must be like. Being fit, strong, dynamic and healthy is fucking great, meaning you can exterminate morons, Z’s, idiots and wage-slaves, but don’t spend all your life in a gym or looking at yourself in the mirror. The rest of life needs you.

If you are young your body has superhuman abilities that older people no longer have.

Build muscle, eat good food, get strong and sprint\! If you stick by these, not only will you be in the top 1% of the population, but by the time you’re old you will seem like a genetic freak to the lazy, fat, and unfit people around you. Their brains won’t be able to compute it; they’ll say you’re “lucky”. But in the immortal words of Mickey Mouse \(don’t quote me\), “the harder you work the luckier you get”.

**If Things Are Bad, Make Them Worse **

****

**CHALLENGE** - *If you’re on welfare, get off as soon as you can*.

Gang Fit has nothing against free money. Only an idiot doesn’t like free money. If people, government or tax payers are stupid enough to give out free money that’s their problem - you shouldn’t care about that. Everyone wants money. What’s wrong with getting it for as little as possible? Some idiots say “you should be concerned about personal dignity”, and not claim money off the state – ignore them. If it’s legal, you claim it; fuck personal dignity as they see it. Oh, “earn money for a hard day’s work\!”

Shut up, wage slave. Politicians, investors and all sorts of people get loads of money for practically nothing, they don’t feel guilty about it, but they tell you about getting a few quid from the State? *Welfare is bad because free money comes with a cost, it* *makes most people lazy*. They get up late, watch mid-morning TV, play video games, and fart about aimlessly *. * A wasted life. * *

The saying goes, “Hell is working most of the time to have just enough money to be broke”. There’s no doubt about that. But an equal hell is having just enough welfare to keep you alive. If you can’t get off welfare because you can’t find a job or think of any ideas to make money, you should sign off. You should turn a bad \(but survivable\) situation into a *much worse situation* – this will hit you like an electric shock, and engage a desperate motivation. It’s frightening but very effective; you’ll have to find something or you don’t eat. The reason people can’t get off welfare is they are

comfortably uncomfortable, they can just about survive. So they don’t try hard enough. There is *always* a way to earn or make money, unless you live on an island only inhabited by Penguins. Signing-off focuses your mind.

* *

If welfare doesn’t make you lazy, *really* doesn’t, then claim it whilst you are unemployed. It’s nothing to be ashamed about, it’s only money. Trapped people, working people, business people, taxpayers – all the normies tell you it’s shameful -

but don’t care what they think. All creatures on the planet want to get food for as little effort as possible - in the human world, money is food. You’d be an idiot to refuse it if there were no negative effects. Regard it as a grant or investment in your time. Whilst you’re claiming you have time to pursue and develop other things. The idea of a Universal Basic Income is just that; giving people free money, no questions asked -

allowing the unemployed to invest their time developing other interests. The fear is that people won’t do anything and just live off UBI. That’s most likely true. Most people aren’t interested in putting in effort to improve their lives. * *

Ultimately, the only problem is if free money makes you lazy and stops you progressing; if it does, then you need to make conditions harder by not accepting it. If it doesn’t stop you from pursuing your plans, schemes and crazy ideas then take it.

This is called being pragmatic. Don’t listen to the emotional reactions of zombies. Do what is right for you.

“*If things are bad, make them worse*”. Translated: If you are comfortable just surviving, your life is going nowhere. It’s mindboggling how many people stay in a poverty stricken existence – lacking the motivation and energy to get out of it. These people live a useless and ineffective life, no use to themselves or anyone else. If you have the scarcity, just surviving, mindset, you need to do something to knock yourself out of it or your life will slowly turn to shit. Purposely create even more hardship; either you die or start sorting your life out. To cure a situation which is bad but tolerable, you need to make it intolerable.

**A Property Buys You A Car – A Car Doesn’t Buy You A Property** One dollar when you’re young is worth twenty when you’re old.

It is better to have a million quid when your twenty-five than a hundred million when you’re seventy. When you’re twenty-five you have physical energy, you can enjoy life in a way that no old person, however rich, can. Yeah, yeah, older people may have different priorities and get fulfillment from different things; things that a young person is oblivious to, but there are few old fossils who wouldn’t want to be physically younger, healthier and more robust. Old people who say they wouldn’t are liars - they’re like fat people who say they are happy being fat. Youth is the most powerful super-drug; you hardly need sleep yet you wake up looking like you spent

the preceding day at an alpine health spa. By the time you’re an old, this reverses -

you *may* have been to an alpine health spa but you wake up looking like a bear sat on your face.

To enjoy your youth, go to parties, travel, hit gym, doss about, and do “stupid shit”

\(it’s not stupid shit\). But this is what you need to do; you need to combine having fun with making money, setting up some sort of business, buying property or land, or learning to be an expert at something. People say it’s good to get to know people who’ve achieved success in their lives. True. But once you start achieving things for yourself, those people start appearing, as if by magic

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

After leaving university, a friend of mine went to work for a well-known investment bank. After 18 months or so, he realised that although he would be financially secure if he stayed at the bank, he would end up dissatisfied with life. He looked at the older employees who’d worked there for years – even though they were *very* comfortably off they were out of shape and burnt out. They looked half-dead. He didn’t want to be like that. Being a courageous individual he decided he would try to raise some money from his associates, and clients, and go it alone in property development. He wrote up a plan and managed to persuade enough people to part with their money in return for a predicted profit \[Note: This could have gone tits-up; he could have lost his and other people’s money\]. He had already bought his first property \(as an investment\) when he was eighteen; mostly using the money he inherited after his father committed suicide.

Even at eighteen he was clued-up. Both his parents had built businesses, so it was natural for him to put his money into something that would give him a return. They never brainwashed him into the idea of “getting a job”, like most zombie parents do.

The normal teenager would have wasted the money on a car, encouraged by their parents – “now you don’t need to rely on me and your Dad to ferry you around\!” If you are young and receive a substantial sum of money, do not waste all of it on a fucking car\! A car is the opposite of an investment, *it takes money out of your pocket*

– don’t be like the normal young person, they are trainee slaves, surrounded by slaves, with slaves as parents. They consume rather than create.

Anyway, back to my friend. With the money he raised, he bought a commercial property, then another, and another. Other people saw this and paid him to work on development projects. He could ask for as much pay as he wanted as he had the ability to raise lots of money. The more he said he was too busy to work for others, the more they offered to pay him. He worked only one-quarter of the time but got paid three times as much. In-between contracts he would spend months off, travelling the world and experiencing life. He had escaped. However, he set up his own property development company, financing big commercial and private housing projects.

Now, he’s loaded of course. He only gets involved in projects he’s interested in, and spends most of his time travelling and enjoying life. He realised early on *what he* *didn’t want* - a life of employment. So he created his own version of reality.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

It normally takes a while to make money. Along the way you will have to be able to put up with crushing pressure and frustration. I have glossed over my friend’s rise to multimillionare-dom, he had many sleepness nights. I don’t know whether he had any self-doubts, maybe he did, but it didn’t stop him. You are not successful once you’ve made a shitload of money, that’s bullshit – you are successful as soon as you start creating a different world for yourself. That’s where it begins. So, whilst you’re having fun, going out and getting pissed, you should also be doing something which makes you diverge from the rest of the crowd. The rest of the crowd are going nowhere except wage-slavery. Teenagers and young people want to fit in and be part of a tribe; that is there undoing – they brainlessly follow the fads and fashions of their time. This is the normal shit, it isn’t clever or original. What’s original is the young person who has the sense to realise that clones their age will achieve nothing of substance. They see that the ‘vitalness’ of the youth generation turns to the reality of wage entrapment. The unusual young person is the one who has the foresight to understand they need to begin building something for themselves.

Start something now, not mañana.  You don’t want to wait until you’re half-dead before you have money. Despite what the tabloids and sensible people tell you, being young and having lots of money is a dream – it’s your reward for being different.

If you live in the City, think twice before buying a car. If your transport is a way of earning money or starting a business, all well and good – if not, it’s a waste of money.

“Yeah, but a car gives me independence, and I have fun times\!” This is the utterance of a zombie, not a person with an independent mind. If you can’t find any friends who have the same attitude as you, don’t let them waste all your time with nonsense. It’s great to have friends but there’s a time for play and a time for work. Doing your own thing isn’t boring, it’s exhilarating. When your first successes come in you feel like a king.

**All Of Life In One Day **

School teaches you rules \(ways to act\). In real life there are no rules, only ‘lessons’ –

those lessons will make you determine your own rules.

At school, you are not allowed to hit a bully – this is bad education both for you *and* the bully. In real life you are entitled to hit someone who is physically threatening you. In real life the bully will find out the real consequence of being a bully; a smashed-up face.

At school, the losers in a race get a clap \(or even a medal\), “Oh, well done Maximillian for putting in so much effort\!” In real life no one cares about the loser, no matter how much effort they put in. Putting in effort is a great thing, but no one is going to give you credit for writing a shit book because you put effort in.

School tells you it’s bad to skip lessons or take time off during term; “it harms your education” – as if school invented the idea of learning. In real life, education can come from anywhere.

School doesn’t prepare you for the real world. When you leave school your proper education begins. Additionally, you may learn the most important life-lesson in one glorious, or awful, day.

## Muscular Arms 

More than anything else skinny arms make you look like a weakling - and when you look like a weakling some idiots will try to push you around. Most kids with thin arms hate wearing t-shirts because it makes them feel puny. If your arms look like toothpicks and *you don’t feel puny*, Gang Fit can’t help you. You have no shame.

Ectomorphs are particularly prone to having thin arms. But if you’re an ectomorph there is no reason why you should continue looking like a stick insect. You’re probably stronger than you look, which ain’t much as you look weak. The good news is, if you have naturally thin arms, but self-respect, you can add on enough quality muscle so that after a year of training, *you’ll find any excuse to show them off* - “look at these guns, motherfuckers\!”

There are hundreds of arm exercises but you can build tremendously strong and impressive looking arms by using just three basic exercises - ones that have stood the test of time; *chin-ups*, *parallel-bar dips* and *press-ups*. The key is, you’ve got to put in

tremendous effort. If you blitz your arms for six months they will grow muscular and strong, like steel; doesn’t matter if you are “naturally skinny”. There is no need to get caught up in what type of exercise is better for your arms; this is focusing on the wrong thing. If the ten most important things for growing muscular arms were listed, numbers one to nine would be *intensity; raw, blood-boiling, intensity. * Most gym bunnies don’t realize that working your arms hard has a similar feeling to working your legs hard – it’s painful, your heart rate rockets and you feel spaced-out. Yes, just from working the arms.

\[“Hard-Gainers” aren’t really hard-gainers, they’re ‘easy exercisers’, they don’t work hard enough. Some people *do* gain muscle more easily than others, that’s a fact - but let’s reframe it, we can call them ‘easy-gainers’ – you are a *normal-gainer*, not a hard-gainer. Get that self-defeating crap out of your mind\]

You can train to get strong or you can train to get muscular. If you have thin arms you should train for muscle - of course you will get stronger, *far* stronger, but the emphasis should be to *grow muscle*. This \(generally\) means doing sets of medium to high reps, not low reps. Low: 1-5 reps. Medium: 8-12 reps. High: 15\+ reps. This doesn’t mean that it’s easier, quite the reverse, it’s harder. Training a few reps takes tremendous effort but doesn’t have anywhere near the gut-wrenching fatigue of higher reps to failure.

The formula for arm growth is regular hard training interspersed with *shock training*.

People are confused, * progression* is more important than regular progressive overload training. *Progression is the goal; ‘progressive overload’ is a routine. * See the difference? The idea of progressive overload is less convincing once you’ve been training for a while. It assumes you can work hard and keep on adding small amounts of weight once a week, once every two weeks, once a month, whatever. It sounds good in theory but eventually it hits the buffers. Gym turkeys do this stuff for years but never improve after initial gains. So, it’s necessary to inject some *seriously hard* *work*. Don’t get this wrong; regular progressive training is the bread and butter of strength and muscular improvements, the majority of gym users can’t even do that\!

There is no need for them to do shock training – they just need to be consistent and work hard.

## Regular training 

### 1 Hard work

2 Consistency

3 Recovery

4 Enough sleep

5 Eat well

These are the main components of regular training.

Note: Even if you don’t eat well, if you get enough calories you will still grow muscle

– it won’t be good for your long-term health, but you will get bigger \(and maybe put on more fat\). If you don’t have enough calories, even if you eat well, muscle growth is difficult. For *overall health* it is best to eat well and eat enough\!

Basic design *- using only the three exercises *\(if you’re not sure how to perform them, look on the internet\):

Tuesday

Press-ups x 20 to 50 \(i.e. whatever you can do\)

Chin-ups x 10-25

Dips x 10-30

Do this all the way through, with only a few seconds between each exercise to regain your breath and composure. This is called a *superset*. Repeat twice with 3 minutes between sets.

Friday

Dips: 4 sets x 10 reps with as much added weight as you can handle Chin-ups: 4 sets x 10 reps \(as above\)

Press-ups: 200 in total, in as few sets as you can

Have enough rest between sets to allow you to complete the next set. You don’t need half a day\! Unlike Tuesday’s superset session you are completing all the dips first, then the chins, and lastly, the press-ups.

See how basic this is? You expected a fucking science manual? People like to overcomplicate gym workouts, when what they should be doing *is working very hard* *and being consistent. * Some gym experts will say that you should do this or that; “this hits the lower biceps…triceps near the elbows…develops a nice peak…works the entire muscle belly…” - forget all that nonsense, it’s for nerds, not you. The different effects of these exercises are minimal; you just want to get muscle on your pipes.

Don’t be a knob, simple basics are good. It’s built battleship bodies.

Note: This is only part of a total body work-out. Your arms will also be worked from rows, deads, press, and so on. There is no need to do more for them. This is more than enough. Stick to this routine for at least six-months before you introduce shock training - if you work like you mean it your arms will get bigger and stronger. You may need a week off every now and then \(within reason\) for extra recovery – that’s fine. You’ll crush the session on your return.

***Shock training ***

When you're near your genetic potential for a body part, or you want to focus on a lagging area, it's a mistake to mindlessly stick to your regular training. You need to take that specific body part and murder it with *intensity and volume*. This extra stimulus will force your body to adapt. Regular training has a breadth vs depth trade-off. Working on your whole body is essential, but if you have skinny arms which are hardly improving, you need to specifically target them. If you do it seriously, it necessarily means you will have to reduce training for the other areas; but don’t worry, a minimal amount of work will retain those, freeing up psychological and physical energy for your guns.

**1** Concentrating on only one area \(your arms\) allows a greater improvement in that area than would be achieved by training all areas concurrently **2 **Shock training *is* *not* for all year-round training but for a specific period, for a specific reason.

**3** Shock training introduces variety into your training. It’s easy to get stale – you end up going through the motions, not improving. Introducing the extra stimulus of a challenge, revitalises your workout.

**4** This type of training is fearsome, it involves hurting yourself repeatedly. Your muscles and brain are telling you to stop, but something deep down, something primal, something without a name, *will not take orders from your weaknesses. * You leave your session feeling fucked but knowing you’ve just conquered the planet.

Note: Massive body builders work at an intensity that most people can’t conceive of.

Their regular training *is* shock training – it’s brutal. There is no way you can do that.

They are juiced-up-to-the-gills genetic freaks. They live, breath, eat, and shit, training.

This sort of thing would cause the normal person to self-destruct. Be strategic, use shock training wisely. Only experience will teach you how far you can push it.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

If a Hollywood producer said to you, “Hey, we want you for our new alien smashing-up action movie. We start shooting in two months - but you need bigger arms”, would you do normal training or shock training? There’s only one answer. To ensure you got the role you would have to blitz your arms practically every day \(and eat far more protein\). If you want to put one, two, or even three inches on your arms as *quickly as* *possible, * imagine there was a film contract and $15million dependent on it. Would you do it? What the fuck\! Of course you would.

Having “naturally skinny arms” is not a barrier to strong muscular arms.

**CHALLENGE 1** – One thousand press-ups in a day: Split your day into 10 x 1hour segments. Each hour aim to complete 100 press-ups. How you want to achieve the hourly total is up to you; 25 every 15 minutes or 10 every 6mins; whatever. Advice: Don’t do more than 50% of the maximum amount of press-ups you can do in any one go, i.e. if your all-out max is thirty don’t do more than fifteen. If you go for max every time your arms will be obliterated after four or five hours. The object is to complete the challenge, not to do a lot quickly then die.

One hundred press-ups an hour might not sound like much, but after six or seven hours the muscle fatigue in your triceps may mean that you’ll start falling behind; in which case you’ll have to carry over into eleven or twelve hours. If this is too easy for you, double it. Currently the 24hr world record is 46,001, which is one every two seconds; but I’ve watched videos of press-up ‘records’, they are complete hogwash, none of them are proper press-ups. Two full press-ups every two seconds for 24hrs is impossible, only a robot or super-alien could do that. Don’t be a dick-splat, do *proper* *press-ups*. Doing loads of shit press-ups makes you look like a jerk.

Once you’ve completed this challenge try dips and chin-ups. This will be faaar harder for most people. But challenges should be difficult, right?

**CHALLENGE 2** – *Shock training*: Choose two exercises, one for biceps, the other for triceps. Every day for one month do one hundred of each. Split each exercise into 10x10, alternating between biceps and triceps. I did this challenge after a friend suggested it. The result was remarkable – a whole extra inch on my upper arms, and thicker more muscular forearms. The average gym trainer takes a year to get that.

Make it difficult, but achievable, by choosing two demanding exercises – chin-ups and parallel bar dips will be enough for most people. As the days progress it naturally gets easier, so you’ll need to reduce the time between sets, or add resistance \(buy a weight belt or devise a way to add weight – be creative\). What happens as the days pass is that the post-workout soreness gets less, but the stiffness increases, to a point.

Be prepared for your arms to be rock-fucking-solid for the whole month. You may get one or two niggles, don’t worry, don’t be weak, carry on.

All training is ultimately psychological, it’s your mind which pushes you – it overcomes your physical frailties. As the days pass you will look forward to this session more and more, not because it’s easy but because it’s a challenge, because it’s hard, because you are doing what no one else is doing – it’s your house of pleasure and pain. You will literally see your arms developing every day. After you have completed this challenge don’t go straight back into regular arm training, take a week off.

Note: Whether you’re at college or work, that is no excuse not to do this – everyone will wonder what you’re up to. If you’re at school and your clueless teacher tells you to stop, inform them that you’re conducting a proper task set by **Gang Fit**, far better than the pointless crap they give you.  

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Some people say that being ‘obsessed’ with your arms isn’t for real athletes or trainers

– ignore this. Whilst it’s true that the legs, back and arse are the foundation of real strength, what you should be concerned about is what makes you more capable for the various situations of real life. Being strong in the lower body, but weak in the upper body won’t get you anywhere; the body is used as a whole for most everyday challenges. Not being able to hang, grip, or pull yourself up using only your arms will severely limit your abilities. Climbing buildings, trees, buildings, rock faces; whatever, demands that you have good upper body relative strength. Develop the ability to climb a thirty-foot rope using arms only – don’t be like the weaklings who need to use their legs.

Final note: *Only* developing your body and nothing else is for losers; you see these types in the gym during the week - big guys with small prospects. The reason they are in the gym all day is because they have nothing else in life. Don’t be a loser – exercise will not make up for a shit life which is going nowhere. Health and strength without freedom, independence and liberty, just makes you a fit slave.

## Hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia 

****

One thing which will make you seem intelligent is knowing the meaning of words.

This doesn’t mean you will necessarily be more intelligent, but you’ll be perceived \(by most people\) as intelligent. I was never a stupid kid but one day I realised that I didn’t know the meaning of words, so I decided that I’d look up the definition of every word I didn’t know. Because you know lots of words it doesn’t mean you know what you’re talking about \(there are plenty of people who sound intelligent but talk crap\), only that you know what *other* people are talking about. \[I knew a guy who was useless at reading and writing, absolutely terrible, but that didn’t stop him becoming a scrap metal dealer, and eventually a successful trader. He couldn’t write for shit, yet he bought and sold big metals contracts\]

****

**TASK** – For the next year, and in a less intense way, for the rest of your life, every time you see, hear, or read a word you don’t know the meaning of, look it up. If someone says something in conversation \(a word or a phrase\) which you don’t understand, ask them what it means. Don’t be a knob and pretend you have

understood a word when someone uses it in conversation – it’s *always* obvious when someone pretends they’ve understood something they don’t understand. Don’t do it\!

A friend of mine recently learned the word *plethora*. Because he had just learnt it, the numbskull started using it everywhere; “a plethora of people”; “a plethora of exercises”; “a plethora of ducks” – stupid shit like that. It was funny though, it was obvious he had just learnt it.

1 Look up the definition of words you don’t know

2 When you’ve learnt a word, don’t keep using it like parrot 3 The dictionary definition of a word and its use in common parlance \(look it up\) are slightly different. Learn how the word is used properly

Will knowing more words give you a greater chance of succeeding in life? The jury’s out. But at least you’ll be able to understand what you hear and read, and you’ll come across as more intelligent. Of course, if you’re the world’s fastest person it doesn’t matter if you don’t know the meaning of Hippopotomonstrosesquippedaliophobia.

****

****

**Leave School At 3 - Leave Work At 5 **

School is a brainwashing device to prepare kids for work. Some schools even extend their hours - they finish at 5pm to replicate work hours. Wankers. The purpose of school is to educate kids to accept their world, not your world. At 3pm you see all the kids leaving the school gates; some get picked by parents, others catch the bus, or the train; some walk home \(this is where the commute begins\); others collect in the high street. They think they’re free. They view adults as bores who’ve never been young.

But the joke’s on them. 95% of them will end up the same way as the typical adult.

They are clueless that they are being groomed for the world of employment.

Education’s ultimate aim is to produce work fodder. The government wants you to be a willing worker – they go on about “full employment”, the definition of hell for a free person. *Full employment, * translated means full-slavery. Rise above this system as soon as you can. Leave them to their lives. Create your own life – free from the oblivion of full employment, the real purpose of school.

## Purpose 

You still get to do some unpleasant work when you’re self-employed, but what you are not doing is purposeless work. This is the difference between being employed and doing your own thing. The work may be the fucking same but now it has a meaning.

A purposeless life is not worth living. It is hell on earth – welcome to the world of employment. An incarcerated man feeding a bird through the window of his cell; a person tending their garden; a young person training towards their vision of Olympic Gold – they have purpose. This is the difference between a labourer building a wall and the religious man building the wall of a church…one of them has a reason beyond a wage. There only needs to be ONE thing that gives your life purpose, that is enough.

You could be an artist, writer, fighter, entrepreneur, brain surgeon, dancer, business owner, traveler, whatever – you have purpose. Doing something which has purpose frees the imprisoned man.

## The Illustrated Man 

*‘The Illustrated Man’* is a collection of science fiction short stories, written by Ray Bradbury in 1951. It’s fucking brilliant. Bradbury was a science fiction genius. Check him out. The ‘illustrated man’ himself is a vagrant former member of a carnival freak show with a heavily tattooed body. His tattoos, created by a time-travelling woman, are individually animated – each tells a different tale.

Fight anyone who says otherwise; all of Bradbury’s stories were essentially about the human condition. He just played it out on a cosmic scale, with aliens, advanced technology and futuristic shit.

All *your* experiences are ‘tattooed’ on you. They are your scars and the lines on your face. The older you get, the more you will collect. This is called experience. Your tattoos will tell your story. If you live a brave, heroic and independent life - you

become the illustrated man. Your stories will be imprinted on you; they *become * you, and you become them. If you have the curse of a comfortable and uneventful life, you hardly have any stories to tell, you’re not fully developed.

Exposing yourself to the creative and destructive forces of nature - outside the usual life of employment, a monthly salary and soul-destroying monotony, will *create* you like the heat of a furnace creates steel. This is *good*, not bad. You will have legendary stories to tell.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

An experienced woodsman can tell from the cross-section of a tree, its age, the climatic changes over its life, the soil conditions, diseases, infections and other environmental stresses. Above a certain threshold events are ‘imprinted’ on the tree.

There is nothing wild and elemental…no living creature, which has perfect unblemished growth. All living things suffer stress, accidents, and random events –

that’s real life. Not only should you not avoid stress, you have to run towards it – it’s where the opportunity lies, and how your life is made.

If someone took a cross-section of you when you die, what are they going to see?

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Ray Bradbury’s, Illustrated Man, was a vagrant and a ‘freak’ – this is the risk you take. But only employed simpletons separate the heroic losers from the heroic winners.

****

****

## The System 

Here’s the system that is designed to control you - then punish you if act out of order.

1 They convince you that you need to be employed, creditworthy - and that you need a mortgage to buy a house.

2 If you act ‘out of line’ they make it difficult for you to be employed, get credit, and get a mortgage to buy a house.

They control you via your credit record and your ‘criminal record’. Now a *non-hate* *crime* is recorded against you and can stop you getting a job. That’s fucked-up. If you can’t see that’s warped, then you’ve been fucked-up. They brainwash you to believe in a system, then they make it difficult to be part of that system. That’s sadism.

They’re sick. It’s the same dynamic as a drug pusher creating an addict then withholding the drug to punish that addict.

You can’t do anything to change the system. But once you step out of it, it becomes laughable; they can no longer control you with threats of withholding this or taking away that. People can only be controlled through fear. When you no longer care about their system, they are powerless. A side-effect is that you no longer care about the concerns of the normal person, because their concerns are nothing, just the emitted methane of people who don’t realised they are caged. Well, they may realise but they are too weak and scared to do anything about it. Before any fuckers say this is self-centered, “you should care about other people\!” - understand that those people don’t give a shit about *your* problems, why should they? You’re only returning the favour.

## Discount 

****

**TEST **- The next time you buy a medium \(or more\) priced good from a shop, ask for a 20% discount. Repeat this for the next ten items you buy. Training shoes, clothes, a microwave, fridge, phone – stuff like that. People don’t ask for discounts for two reasons; 1/ they don’t realize that stores will often consider discounts if it means getting a sale; 2/ they are too embarrassed to ask – they’re meek. The ironic thing is that people save their money for sales, when they could be getting sale prices outside the sales, if they had the confidence to ask. Once you’ve asked for a discount a few times, you get used to it.

When you branch out on building your own empire, you must be prepared to look stupid to other people; you must also be prepared to look as if you have no money.

You *may* have no money until your successes start piling up, but you’re going to have to divorce what the morons think of you – what matters is what you think of yourself.

When you ask for a discount the shop assistant may think you’re a loser, even though *they are one a shit wage. * How funny is that? \[Note: that is why the butler is often more of a snob than the butler’s boss\]. Not only are they on a shit wage, they generally won’t have the authority to sanction a discount, so they’ll call their

supervisor. You don’t have to give any reason why you want a discount, just ask for one, don’t bottle out.

To get on in life, you have to be confident - if you’re not confident \(which is not a failing, no one is confident all the time\) you have to look confident. You have to face your fears. You have to be prepared to look like an idiot. You have to constantly challenge your own timidity. Asking for a discount is not something most people do, which is what makes you stand out. View it as some sort of consumer rite of passage.

****

****

## Project X 

****

*“No one can tell me, Nobody knows, Where the wind comes from, Where the wind* *goes.” *

* * A.A. Milne – ‘ *Now We Are Six’*

No one knows where they are going to end up in life. It’s a mystery. Your plans and schemes will take you somewhere, but as you are not God you can’t possibly know where it will take you, only that you are on a journey. That journey shapes you along the way so that you start off as one beast and end up as another. Just have the intent to make the journey.

What you should know is if you’re on the wrong train, every stop is the wrong stop.

The journey starts with off-loading the shit you don’t want, the things that keep you a miniscule human, useless to yourself and the people you care about.

* *

Your life is yours, not someone else’s – do not put your life in another person’s hands

– doing that will always lead to tragedy for you. You need to be vessel worthy of the cosmic stardust which created you. Make your life your project - this is what you do when you train, why not apply it to the rest of your life? If you do this at twenty, by the time you’re thirty you will have separated from the rest of the herd. But you can do this at any age because the world has changed – it is now easier to construct your own world than ever before.

**TASK **– Whatever you are doing, stop doing it for a week \(if you can’t do that, someone owns you\). Take a train/car/bus/helicopter/horse/bicycle to a place you have never been to before - a city, a town, or somewhere on the coast where no one knows you, and you don’t know them. Find six places on your country’s map. List them one to six, then throw a dice – the number it shows should be the place you go to. Don’t have any other considerations, just do it - stick to the place the dice has selected for you. Now you are a journey that *you* have initiated. Find cheap accommodation. Stay a few nights. Don’t view your new place like a tourist, they miss everything which

matters. What does it feel like being in a place where no one knows you? A place where every street you walk down is a new street? Even familiar things; shops, houses, streetlights; the pavement - look different. Take note of the postcards selling shit in the shop windows, read the local newspaper, listen to the accents, the way people speak, the different words they use. Who knows what you’ll learn, but the experience will only be positive. A year at school doesn’t compare.

All of life is your teacher, not your fucking school. School just spews out work zombies. When those zombies visit different areas they miss all the relevant stuff about those areas – they stopped *really* learning when they left school.

Going to a new place is a great way to discover people and how they live; and then you realise *that is you*, where you live, trapped in your bubble – going about your normal life.

Remember the dream you had where you walk out of your front door in your neighbourhood? As you walk along things start to change, your neighbourhood turns into an area you no longer recognise – you carry on but you can’t find your way back?

*Project X* means leaving the familiarity of your neighbourhood; going on a journey.

You don’t know where you’ll end up, but you’ll have started your journey. Unlike your dream you won’t lost, because discovering the world isn’t a loss, it’s a gain.

****

## Think And Grow Strong 

Gang Fit says that you should create your own life, and that you should be utterly uncompromising whilst you’re going about it. If you’re not, you won’t achieve it.

People and circumstances will throw every obstacle in your way – that’s par for the course. You need to have an impenetrable shield to stop it getting to you. If you’ve been brought up on the street or in harsh circumstances, just about everything around you wants to keep you down - so you need to be determined, resolute that you can lift yourself up and start succeeding. When good things start happening, when your first crumbs of success are realised, life starts giving you opportunities where there were none before. Brilliant people and crazy things present themselves, they appear out of the ether. “Why the fuck didn’t I see the opportunies before?\!” That’s called life; you can’t see things when obstacles are obstructing your vision, and you can’t see things when you are looking down at the ground. Challenges will be immense, you’ll have to work harder than ever before, but out of the fog you begin to see something glorious on the horizon – your destination.

You can ignore everything in Gang Fit, apart from this – *create your own life. * You can create whatever life you want. No person or authority has the right to say different. You could have a thousand lives – one you become a physicist; another, you are an entrepreneur; another, you care for animals; another, you live in the mountains

– whatever. You live life on your own terms. This doesn’t mean you are selfish, as a happy person is never selfish – it means nobody dominates you or stops you from creating your life.

You must know that all creation starts in your mind. *Use your mind to forge a new* *world. *

****

