+++
title = "3"
+++

****

**GANG FIT: PART 3 **

**MARK BAKER **

**- GANG FIT - **

****

**\(Part Three\) **

Now you’ve left the school or university gates, you can forget all that shit you learnt. So long. It was nice whilst it lasted \(maybe not\) but you’re in a different world now. This world has a different sort of teacher and requires a different sort of knowledge. If you learnt about ox-bow lakes at school or the atomic weight of a rat’s anus, you can carry that knowledge, or even expand on it, throughout your life – but do you realise how many slaves know things? They sit in their pods for forty hours a week, trapped, entombed, tied to a leash, unable to leave their front door and *turn right* because *they have to turn left*.

But it’s ok because they “know things”.

Some people liked to be owned, they’re scared of freedom – freedom is uncertainty. Freedom is the danger of starvation. Freedom is being responsible for your own actions. So they go to work, return home, watch TV, and slowly descend into the mindless void. This void is punctuated by weekly shopping, a two-week holiday every year - and once every four years or so, the right to vote in an election to change the government – as if that makes any difference to their pathetic lives. Is Gang Fit being too harsh on the zombies? No. It’s impossible to be too harsh on the fuckers. They want to infect you with their

\#mindvirus. Their world deserves to be smashed-up. They are trying to turn you into one of them; you should regard that as an act of war.

Who you are, what your background is, or how many gold stars you got at school – none of that matters. Some people will tell you it does, but all they are doing is trying to categorise you, put you in a box which says you have some sort of advantage, or the opposite, some sort of disadvantage. Advice: delete these people from your life. They will only drag you down into their retarded theories and ideologies.

All you should be concerned with is that your life begins again tomorrow, then the next day, then the next. Too many people use their past as an excuse for their position in life; if that’s you, you need to stop that shit. It doesn’t take much to do; all you need to do is take action. After a while the things which used to bring you down start to evaporate; even better, *they help you rise*, they add to your explosive power - the power to destroy the things you don’t want and create the things you do.

****

**Gang Fit** is dynamic, irreverent, and visceral – it has no interest in fitting in. It isn’t made up to suit a particular sector of the market. It has uncovered that similarities exist between the teenager, the disaffected, the business owner, the poor, and the multimillionaire.

The similarities are a desire for freedom, liberty, independence, creativity, health, and strength – being wild; not being told what to do or how to live. This is unsurprising as wildness is in our genes –

we descend from hunter-gatherers who roamed the plains and slept under the stars. There is a primal force in your dna which is being suppressed by much of modern life. *You need to uncover it*. The future holds the promise of something great and transformative if you use it before it fades, and you turn to dust.

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

**Contents **

****

****

**The Opportunity Generator & Amplifier **

**2-Point Plan **

**Basic Leg Strength **

**What day is it? **

**Gang **

**Money vs Freedom **

**0.01 Per Cent **

**A Millionaire at $500 Per Week **

**Bungalow Town **

**Knock The Shit Out Of Slowly Dying **

**Snakes and Ladders **

**Paid Employment **

**Death Ground Strategy **

**You Are Not A Collective **

**The World’s Favourite Hobby **

**Action Beats Bullshit **

**The Downside Of Losing Money Is All In Your Head **

**Hell is You **

**Make The World More Unequal **

**Escape Velocity **

**Like Attracts **

**A Job Kills Your Dreams **

**Monster **

**Major & Minor **

**Nettles **

**Surviving Shit Street **

**Expectations, Reframing, Mindset, Blah, Blah **

**90% ‘Correct’ But 100% Dead **

**School, Life & Zombies **

**Escape Hardship, Then Escape Comfort **

**Fat Boy Get Lean * ***

**Metabolic Test Kit**

**Mash-up Training **

**“You’re Obsessed” **

**100 Slaves **

**Budgerigar **

**GANG FIT META-CHALLENGE **

**Balcony of Dead Flowers **

****

****

**The Opportunity Generator & Amplifier **

****

If you are intending to start a business of some sort, never forget this; *the only point of* *having a business is to improve your life. If your business doesn’t improve your life you* *are in the wrong business. * You will never be told this at business school. You won’t even be told this by other business owners. This is the first time you’ve been told it.

Isn’t that crazy?

**Anecdote:** For two years I worked Saturdays with a friend at the world famous Portobello Road Market in Notting Hill, West London. It was a great crack. I was outdoors, and got paid cash-in-hand according to how much junk I sold to tourists.

Crucially, it was only one day a week, my upper limit for employment. The person I worked with had his own business which he’d been struggling with for years. His health had suffered, his marriage was all but broken \(“my wife this, my wife that”\), and he was a semi-alcoholic, falling asleep in his favourite chair every night after washing down his cheese and pork pie with a bottle and a half of red wine.

One day, he turned up at the market with a savage hangover, only realising in the morning that rather than drinking two bottles of red, he had drunk two bottles of Port.

Even though he had guzzled an ocean of vin rouge over the years, he had no taste whatsoever – a trait of all alcoholics. You could tell he was a junk drinker – he drank his wine from a half-pint glass and poured it like water from a tap.

Twenty-three years in his business had turned him from a young man with a vision to an overweight fucking wreck, only a short step away from a cardiac unit. He was trapped in a nightmare, like a story from the Twilight Zone.

A few years later it eventually all went belly-up. I bumped into him – he told me he was stacking shelves in a supermarket. He was in his mid-fifties. He deserved it.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

The future for the normal person isn’t ‘starting a business’, self-employment, or working from home; that is not today’s nature of opportunity. \[Note: The idea that being employed but working from home is personal progress is misconceived – working from home is just a longer leash. People who think they’re free because they work from home are like slaves who’ve been given a gold star by their master\]

*Lifestyle* is your business. You should to do things which *enhance your life*. The blueprint is straightforward. You begin with an idea of the sort of life you want to live, then you add in the components which you require to live that life. At the same time you start to eliminate the shit you don’t like. Kids are told at school that they should do stuff to help other people, save the planet, and other bullshit – they’re told that only caring about their own lives is somehow selfish. This is complete bollocks. When a person enhances their own life they enhance the life of other people around them.

***The Opportunity Generation & Amplification Machine ***

****

Fortunately, there is a resource that past generations never had, poor bastards – the Internet. The internet is the most powerful manmade creation in history. For your life you should view it is an ‘Opportunity Generation & Amplification Machine’. It will help you create your new world.

The Internet: Opportunity Generator → Your Mind: Opportunity Amplifier Your Mind: Opportunity Generator → The Internet: Opportunity Amplifier Our brains \(singularly, and as a collective\) are the original ‘internet’ – the original opportunity generator made by Nature. And because we can’t help making the universe all about us, we created the internet, the simulation of a brain.

GENERATOR: Ideas, information, serendipity

AMPLIFICATION: Network effect, scale, connectivity, zero cost The Internet is a connectivity and information device which means that compartmentalising your life as this or that \(business owner/self employed, etc\) has become irrelevant. Your life is merely an expression of how you want to live – you don’t care to call yourself anything.

The internet is the Big Bang of opportunity which means there are zero \(practically\) costs, a trillion interconnections and the ability to crush distance in a split second. You need no stock, no warehouse, no rent, no rates, no physical structure. You *can* have those if you want, but you are free to choose – which is the point.

You are free to decide where you live; you can have a foot in the country and one in the city. You can ‘work’ in the morning, as you wish, and go for a walk in the afternoon; a swim in the sea, a drink with your mates – a cream tea at small farmhouse cafeteria.

You are not stuck to a desk, car, commute or any enforced schedule.

Like the Amazon Rainforest the internet is a million niches, as one agent is destroyed another is created. Tik Tok crushed Snapchat overnight \(Tik Tok will eventually be crushed\) – does anyone care? Of course not, *the universe was formed from creative* *destruction. * It’s the way. * *

****

## The Land Of Opportunity

The greatest country \(with the most opportunity\) isn't the most perfect country - that's why people flock to the United States, not Finland, Norway, Switzerland, or any other

country where the people only cross a completely clear road when the traffic lights signal they can. \[The Definition of a Lunatic: A person who drives at 30mph on a clear open road that has a 30mph speed limit. Perfect countries are full of lunatics like this.

Perfect countries have a history of taking children away from parents who they deem undesirable – they enforce their ‘perfection’. This is why a free country can never ever be a perfect country\].

You make your money in the Land of Opportunity and retire in the Land of Perfection.

But there's a surprise ending; the US has a come up against an entity ridiculously more powerful - the Internet. \[The US is powerful like the Hulk, but it’s dwarfed by the internet which is like Galactus. Galactus eats planets; the internet is eating our planet\].

The Internet is the new Land of Opportunity; and this land is everywhere. One day it will connect the Moon, then the Solar System, then the whole fucking Universe. It will be in the air you breathe, in the petal of every flower and in every cell of your body.

Yeah, I’m repeating myself – but it’s so important it *has* to be repeated. Because of the Internet, millions of clued-up unemployed people will never need a boss. You are the new Hunter-Gatherer, doing what you want, going where you want, living how you want – taking your tribe with you. Whatever you are doing you’re a moron if you’re not utilising the Internet. The internet is your idea on steroids.  

If anyone tells you life is hard, it’s true but not in the way they mean. They are stuck under a rock, scared of the real world, perpetual victims with a scarcity mindset. How to make your life is the biggest challenge you’ll ever face – it’s hard, but it’s hard in a good way. Building a rocket ship and journeying to the stars is hard – but that’s the sort of hard life you want.

Your new life is created by generating ideas and using the countless resources available to you. Incredibly, they are virtually free. Eleven years at school, and they never told you that.

**2-Point Plan **

****

This is so important that no one tells you about it at school or university.

- get rid of the shit in your life

- add in \(go towards\) what you want from life

Yeah, I know – Gang Fit has written about this before, but it needs to be simplified so you will \*never\* forget it. Whoever you are, whatever you background, whatever your skills, strengths or weaknesses, this is fundamental to creating the life you want.

Nothing else comes close. Make all decisions in life with reference this. Tattoo ‘**2-Point **

**Plan’** on your forearm. When you die they can engrave it on your tombstone: ‘Here lies the body of someone who followed the 2-point plan’.

As time progresses people forget the reasons for being alive. Things get complicated –

employment, money and ‘responsibilities’ start covering up what should be obvious.

Further, zombies say that life is about, “helping others”, “having children”, “being a good person”, blah, blah, all sweet and lovely - but there are millions of carers, charity workers, volunteers, parents, and nice people who are still miserable.

Follow the 2-point plan\! You will feel great because you have cut out shit and added in what you want. This is not difficult for anyone with half-a-brain to understand.

Everything good comes from it. You can be a nice person if you want; you can help others if you want – but still follow the 2-point-fucking-plan\!

A fundamental prerequisite of a happy life is that it is *self-centered*. Brain-dead zombies say that being self-centered is wrong, “what a mean and horrible human being\!”; they only perceive self-centered in a negative way. But all great things have come from individuals who have created something which is meaningful to *themselves*. The world’s greatest buildings and gardens were created by people who followed their own ambitions. Institutions, charities, space rockets, life-saving medical procedures, wines and artisanal cheese – all the result of self-centered people. That’s what Gang Fit means by self-centered.

The 2-point plan is so obvious, that people can’t see it. It is so powerful, that people can’t believe it. Maybe that’s why it’s not taught to *any* young kid at school. Yet, it’s essential. Can you believe that?\! An essential aspect of life not taught at school?

*Repeat*:

**Get rid of the shit in your life. Add in what you want from life. **

****

Gang Fit is more important than school.

****

## Basic Leg Strength 

****

**TEST – **This test you can do right now. Get into a kneeling position, like you’re going to get knighted by the Queen of England. Lift your rear foot off the ground and stand up using your front leg only \(do not put your foot leg touch the ground whilst attempting to stand up\!\). Keeping both hands crossed on your chest makes the movement more difficult. Can you do it? Good – your leg strength is *acceptable*. It’s hilarious watching people who can’t do it, they look like they’re glued to the ground. Don’t be a weakling.

Some people like to use the fancy Pistol Squat which is fine, but impossible if you don’t have a degree of flexibility in your hamstrings.

Note: Many people mistake tightness for lack of strength, i.e. if you can’t lift your straight leg out ninety degrees \(parallel with the ground\) in front of you it’s more likely due to hamstring tightness than lack of quad/hip strength. If you’re as strong as a fucking rhino you won’t be able to do it if your hamstrings are super-tight. Yet, little-girl ballet dancers can do it. Smack any skinny moron who says you can’t do it due to lack of strength.

Do this test every now and then to check how easy it is – it takes 3 seconds. If it’s getting more difficult you need to do more resistance training on your legs \(or you’re putting on fat\). If it’s getting easier, all well and good. As you age it is *essential * you can still do this, as weak legs are associated with all sorts of negative physical/health conditions, as well as being a loser.  

****

****

**What Day Is It? **

I was at an all-day party - went to a shop \(with others\) to get more booze. Someone said, "we're at a party, it's a Thursday and no one fucking cares".

In prison they feed you, you have somewhere to sleep, everything is organized; there's routine - you go to bed and get up at the same time, you know what you'll be doing the next day, and the next, and the next. They call it a punishment yet it sounds just like a life based around full-time employment. “But I can leave my job”. Yes, you can – and get another one, transferring from one prison to another. That’s the slave’s idea of freedom apparently.

This may seem like a stupid thing to do, but ask *any* employed person what day it is -

they always know. Now ask a free person the same question - look at them, you see they have to think for a moment before they can answer? This is because the day of the week is irrelevant to them. Their connection to the world is completely different than the employed. The only time an employed zombie may lose track of what day it is, is when they’re on their annual holiday. Feel sorry for them \(no, don’t\).

Earlier on we had a ‘basic length strength test’. Ask yourself what day of the week it is, that’s your basic ‘freedom test’. This isn’t a joke; this is a serious test. Every free person experiences this. A slave will think you have some sort or memory or mental problem if you have difficult remembering what day it is. Quite ironic.

****

**Gang **

*True story*: A middle-aged overweight researcher went to an area to investigate what was going on - poking his nose into affairs which didn’t concern him. A group of five men \(locals\) took exception to his presence so they killed him. The researcher had gone with others, including the police; they knew it was a dangerous neighbourhood. They escaped with their lives.

Where was this? A shit run-down neighbourhood? A drug infested area? No, it was the Amazon rainforest. The researcher was a 30-year expert on Amazonian tribes. The

‘locals’ were an isolated indigenous people – they attacked the group with bows and arrows. Someone who witnessed the incident said the tribe was usually, "a peaceful group", but "this time, there were just five armed men - a war party". Note that the tribe members had no regard for external authority or a uniform.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Being in a gang and having fights is closer to our ancestors hunter-gatherer lifestyle than staring at a screen in an office all day. Apparently, the former is abnormal; the latter is normal. “*Gang” * is emotively used by the media, child psychologists and other idiots for what is simply a group of friends who hang out together; a tribe, a band of brothers – nothing wrong with that. Businesses, organisations, charities, sports clubs and pop groups are all groups of individuals with a unifying element or mission, so why is a gang bad?

The idea that you should *not* be in a ‘gang’, is retarded. Experts say that people need social support, they say people need friends, they say people should help and support each other. What the hell does a gang do?\! Yet they call it antisocial. Here’s the reason why *real* gangs are hated; unlike brainwashed kids at school they live by their own rules and codes, they defend their group against outsiders, they sort out their own problems, and most of all, they don’t give a shit what society thinks is right or wrong. This sounds *exactly* like a hunter-gatherer group.

Don’t believe experts – being in a gang is good. Your family is a gang. Your friends are a gang. You protect them, they protect you. What benefits them benefits you, what benefits you benefits them. People want you to put the welfare of strangers over your own welfare and the welfare of your gang, don’t allow it. Your welfare and the welfare of the closest people to you is the absolute fundamental of life. Hunter-gatherers knew it. The whole fucking animal kingdom knows it. The only living creatures on the planet who don’t know it are the ones who read 200 books and went to university.

**Money vs Freedom **

****

*There are 2 types of individual who trade freedom for money*: 1 The employed \(millions of these\). They spend all their weekdays working for money.

They earn money so they can pay bills and feel free at the weekend 2 The individual who is never satisfied - they want more money. The business owner/mega-rich, entrepreneur, wanker, etc. They are boring show-offs and even more boring company; they *only* talk about making money. Men like this surround themselves with plastic women and sports cars. Women like this are childless, depressed, and drink too much wine

****

*There are 3 types of individual who trade money for freedom*:

****

1 The hobo/tramp/homeless/drop-out \(take out the drug addict, those with mental problems\). This life is tough - the heroically naïve Chris McCandless ended up dying in a bus in Alaska

2 The purposely unemployed, on welfare \(gainfully or ungainfully\) 3 Those who work just enough to spend the majority of time doing what they like \(self-employed/part-time employee/entrepreneur/creator, etc.\) *There are 4 types of individual where money vs freedom is irrelevant*: 1 The individual who has investments, passive income, a business run by others, an automated income stream, etc, Anything which brings in money with minimal time involved. Money flows into their pockets whatever they are doing 2 Someone who has sold a business, made a mint \(in some way\), and no longer needs to work. These people may choose to spend some of their time only on projects/ideas/social enterprises which interests them – more interesting than playing golf until they die \(another form of zombiefication\)

3 Professional artisans/writers who love their work. Their idea of freedom is doing their work and being paid for it. Work and freedom are the same thing 4 The landed, gentry, aristocrat; those with inherited wealth/assets; and ‘rich kids’. The aristos conserve and pass on their wealth to the next generation \(as is their duty\), the rich kids blow it on parties, drugs – then start a fashion chain or similar, which usually fails.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

It is far better to focus on being free \(escaping entrapment\) than having money. The average numbskull response, “Stupid advice. You can’t be free without money\!” Of course, numbskull – freedom with no money isn’t freedom, it’s mostly hell.

Concentrating on true freedom \(in today’s society\) necessitates being hyper-concerned with money, but not allowing money to enslave you. In fact you have to be almost paranoid about money \(but not in the way an employed person is paranoid about it\) because you understand that the right sort of money, how it flows to you, how it’s created, has the power to transform your life and allow you to permanently escape the rat race.

****

Gang Fit chooses the freedom route over the money route but doesn’t want starvation or deprivation to come with the freedom, even though it is prepared to risk those in the pursuit of freedom. First note: It may come with it for a while, but don’t be a fucking weakling – being scared of having no money keeps millions of zombies at work. Second note: You won’t realise that suffering is good for you whilst you’re in it; only later on when you look back on it. It’s deep, very deep – possibly the deepest part of having achieved something; that you went through immense suffering. Maybe Gang Fit is wrong; it’s possible that suffering is a *vital * part of growth. The forging of the warrior mind *and* a full wallet.

2 types of freedom \(which don’t involve suffering, living on nothing; i.e *Chris* *McCandless Syndrome*\)

- The freedom to not *have to do* anything you don’t want to do

- As above, but with the additional freedom to do whatever you feel like doing, whenever you feel like doing it

****

Read ‘A Millionaire at $500 Per Week’ later in Gang Fit about this – you’ll see that anyone who is motivated and has a brain bigger than walnut can achieve the former.

Why don’t parents tell their kids? Why doesn’t school teach it? They say that school prepares kids for life…“improves their chances” – what does that even mean? Being free \(not trapped\) and having no problems is the best fucking thing to happen to anybody, they should be teaching that at school. Brainwashed kids have been brainwashed by adults who themselves have been brainwashed. Most teachers should be sacked. Sooner or later their work will be done by robots anyway – then they might understand how their version of education doesn’t prepare anyone for real life. If schools had lessons on freedom, making money, being creative, starting a business, building a ship, making nitroglycerin, riding a horse, being wild - kids would lap it up, there’d be a reason to go to school. School is teaching young people to be employees, trading time for money…a death sentence. That’s why schools are shit. A friend of

mind set alight to his school. Unfortunately, it didn’t burn down to the ground. He was expelled. I was too young to realise he had the right idea.

The majority of people in your street are not free. You are literally surrounded by zombies; people who traded freedom \(their time\) for money, They are so mentally undeveloped they don’t even know it. Yet they are not idiots in the low IQ, dribbling, retarded, butt-ugly face sort of way. Being free has nothing to do with IQ, education, knowledge, blah, blah…if it was, why is a chipmunk with its tiny fucking brain more free than your neighbour with the Mercedes? Their idiocy is far deeper than that –

zombiefication infects every cell of their body…

*Story*: A few years back scientists discovered a parasite which lives inside the eyeballs of a certain fish. The eye fluke controls the fish for most of its life. When the nasty critter is ready to reproduce the host fish suddenly starts swimming a lot more, and closer to the surface of the water. This is because the eye flukes live inside the fish but can only reproduce inside a bird. A fish which swims closer the water surface is more likely to be eaten by a bird. Once inside the bird’s gut, the eye fluke reproduces; their eggs are shed in the bird’s shit, and hatch in water. They find water snail hosts, multiply in the snails, and then start searching for a host fish. They penetrate the fish’s skin and work their way up to its eyeball. The fish don’t know it has a parasite \(the scientists gave them a questionnaire\) and they don’t know they are being controlled. It doesn’t matter if the fish has a degree in Astrophysics or a membership with Mensa, it is still controlled by the parasite.

****

****

## 0.01 Per Cent 

If you want to be all of these - strong, lean, fit, athletic, independent and 'unemployable'

you can't live like 99.99% of people.

Strong – 1 in 50

Strong and lean – 1 in 250

Strong, lean & fit – 1 in 500

Strong, lean, fit & athletic – 1 in 1000

Strong, lean, fit, athletic & independent/unemployable – 1 in 10,000\+

As each one is added the cohort diminishes. In a population of 100 million people only 10,000 would qualify. But the reality is they are not independent qualities - in Gang Fit’s world they are connected; *they have to be connected*. Being one makes you more likely to be the other. All the qualities together should be as achievable as any one quality, even though in modern society the last category is only 1/200th as common as the first category.

What the hell is going on? If you were a wild beast you would be all of these. Humans are so intelligent they’ve sent rockets to Mars but so stupid they eat cornflakes for breakfast, a sandwich for lunch and pizza for supper. They’re so stupid they think they can get away with eating shit and doing no exercise. They’re so stupid they spend all day doing the same boring shit in the same boring place. Not you though. You are wild.

And what does a wild animal want? It wants to be free; it hates being caged. A wolf will chew its leg off to escape from a trap – that’s how much it fears entrapment. That’s the sort of intensity you need to escape the gravitational pull of Planet Zombie.

Note: The Wild is faaar more dangerous than a zoo but no animal likes being caged.

They won’t trade freedom for security and the guarantee of being fed.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

The more free you are, the less you have in common with people. If you want to be normal, go ahead, it’s easy to do - you do nothing. You will be sucked in like a black hole sucks in light. But if you have any wildness, energy, individuality or sheer rage left in you which hasn’t been obliterated by school and your upbringing, you cannot live like 99.99% of people. Build your body, attain dynamic health, and fight for your freedom.

****

****

**A Millionaire At $500 Per Week **

****

What keeps people trapped at work or in their business is they think they need enough money so they can have whatever they want in life – a nice house, a supercar, yacht, international travel, and other clichés. That isn’t the right way to think; if you believe it, it will become the manacles around your ankles. Don’t be just another fucking fool who has been taken in by the marketing of what a “good life” means.

The first and most important step into the land of your childhood dreams is to *have* *enough money so you don’t have to do anything you don’t want to do. *

* *

It is far easier to do the latter than the former. If you have expensive tastes \(and ambitions\) the first may take $10million, the second only $500 per week. If your outgoings are low you could be free from slavery *forever* for only $300 per week.

The thing which makes people most miserable is spending their days doing stuff they don’t want to do. Can you imagine that? Being born so you can spend 45 years of your working life trapped in something you hate, bored out of your brain but convincing yourself it’s necessary? That’s retarded. You know, right? It’s *not good for you* – and

what’s not good for you is not good for the world because unhappy people make the world an unhappy place.

What’s easier to make? A few hundred a week or a million? You don’t need to be Einstein to work it out yet the logic seems to be lost on people who inhabit zombieland.

“Oh, but I don’t want to be poor all my life\!” Idiot. If you have more free time because you are not doing the 9 to 5 you have more opportunity to research and start things which make you more money. *So your first aim is to be free from employment, then* *create your empire*. Whoever heard of a slave creating an empire?

Money should make you free - that’s the whole fucking point of having it. It shouldn’t make you a slave. Wanting a gold watch and a supercar before you are free means you’ll be a slave forever.

****

****

## Bungalow Town 
- studio flat

- house

- bigger house

- bungalow

- coffin

There’s a place on the English coast that I call ‘bungalow town’ - that’s not its real name, idiot; I just call it that. I kid you not; the whole place is just bungalows. I was cycling along the coast and came across it. I didn’t realise at first; “this is a pleasant place” - but it slowly dawned on me that something was wrong, like being in a horror film. The place was spotlessly clean and tidy, but no one was outside even though it was warm and the sunny. I needed to get out as I was being drawn in to its ‘pleasantness’

and order – like a manicured cemetery. Fuck this - I’m not ready to die.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Bungalows are generally occupied by people who are one-step-from-the-grave, either because they are old or because they are boring. Old people live in bungalows because their family have left home and they downsize \(they don’t need the space anymore\), or because increasing infirmity means stairs become a problem – they need all the rooms on one level. Boring people live in bungalows because a bungalow represents the dimming of the spark of life. \[Boring people are the worst fuckers on the planet; they make you want to kill yourself. They are vampires, sucking the life-force out of you.

Steer clear of them\].

Every other week an ambulance arrives in Bungalow Town and quietly takes someone away, never to come back. This happens with hardly anyone noticing. The ambulance

is the start of the journey from bungalow to coffin. Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, cradle to grave, don’t bother putting the kettle on.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

There may come a time when the idea of living in Bungalow Town becomes appealing to you. You have to fight it. Smash your head against a brick wall, run as fast as you can until you almost pass out, walk inches from the edge of a steep cliff, stare into the eyes of a 150lb Rotweiler - do something, *anything*, which knocks the shit out of slowly dying *\(see next essay*\). Your next move after downsizing to a bungalow is downsizing to a coffin – no fucker ever *upsizes* from a bungalow; it’s like they are trapped in a hell which they don’t know is hell. That’s the worst form of hell, one which infects your mind, unaware that the underbelly of ‘pleasant’ bungalow town is eternal nothingness, tiny herbaceous borders, and the antiseptic silence of God’s waiting room.

****

**Knock The Shit Out Of Slowly Dying **

Nobody heard him, the dead man,

But still he lay moaning:

I was much further out than you thought

And not waving but drowning.

Poor chap, he always loved larking

And now he's dead

It must have been too cold for him his heart gave way,

They said.

Oh, no no no, it was too cold always

\(Still the dead one lay moaning\)

I was much too far out all my life

And not waving but drowning.

*‘Not Waving but Drowning’* – Stevie Smith, 1957

Stevie Smith tried to commit suicide when she was only eight years old - can you imagine that? Poor cow.

Maybe not her but the majority of people are depressed because their lives are boring as shit. They’re going nowhere. The thing about going nowhere is that it actually feels like you are slowly sinking. Drowning. It’s not that people can’t cope with too much \(being busy\), they can’t cope with nothing. *Nothing* slowly kills more people than being busy. Modern day depression comes from the purposeless *void*, not from being overworked.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Some people are so bored with their lives they fill it up with full-time employment. Can you believe that?\! That gives them something to do, but it’s not the answer, it makes things worse - it makes their brains shrink to the size of a roasted peanut. Not only do they stay bored but they become boring – spouting shit about their jobs.

The reality is that you are a nobody. Even the most famous person in the world is still a nobody. Apart from your family and closest friends, no one gives a shit about you.

Don’t worry, it’s not personal, they’ve got their own lives and irrelevant problems.

* *

There is nothing wrong with being a nobody, but there is everything wrong with being bored, and being a bore. If you are bored with your life you need to knock the shit out of slowly dying. You need to fill the void. You can do this through art, through nature, through religion, through a dedication, through the oceanic, or through rioting and smashing a place up. The motivation is the same – feeling alive. When you are bored you feel like a nobody. When you are excited, doing interesting shit and creating something, *you are still a nobody* but you *feel* like a somebody.

*What slowly dying looks like: *

**Physical** – getting fat, feeling tired all the time, having no energy **Psychological** – being sensible, following a boring routine, supporting Arsenal football club, having no energy

If you’re young, this shouldn’t be happening to you – if it is, God help you; you are already becoming like the zombies and old farts around you. You need to escape that shit or you’ll end up in Zombie Town, or worse, Bungalow Town Knock the shit out of slowly dying. How do you do that? Wait a minute…

****

## Flat surfaces 

The older you get the flatter your life becomes. The flatter your life becomes the older you get.

Climbing trees, jumping over walls, physical challenges, running up stairs, doing dangerous things, running from the cops, having fights, cycling superfast down a hill, random shit – what do all these have in common?

- They improve your brain

- Adults hardly do them

Studies have found that climbing a tree improves your brain; not only that, it improves your brain instantly. This must be why so many adults are idiots, they stopped climbing trees. In fact, they stopped doing all sorts of things which improves their brains. They evened out their lives – flat surfaces \(pavements, offices, factory floors\); flat lives \(9-5

employment, routine, financial stability, regular meals, central heating\) and flat activities like long distance running and watching F1.

All the things you did as a kid improves your brain. Most of the things you do as an adult deadens your brain.

Being young is variability; getting old and being sensible is petrification, taking out unevenness - reducing risk and uncertainty; never doing anything physically challenging. No hits of adrenaline, never jumping off high walls, never doing anything frightening – never doing any shit which makes your heart beat with excitement or fear.

The problem is that the complete absence of variation is death. The zombies are choosing death over life. Who told you that is being sensible? Kill them.

**CHALLENGE** – retain or reintroduce variation. Physical, psychological and emotional. Ask a person out for a date, do something risky, start a fight \(against someone who deserves it\), face fear, learn to juggle, leave your job. Move to a mountainous area, do terrifying shit. Quit your job, gatecrash a nightclub or party, swim down a river, motorcycle across a desert, hang glide, fight crocodiles, spend 48hrs with a homeless person, use public transport without paying, take a week off work without asking, make a million dollars – you get the idea.

In other words…the way *to knock the shit of slowly dying * is to stop being a sensible wanker – do ‘stupid’ stuff. You’re welcome.

****

****

**Snakes And Ladders**.  

You ever played the game snakes and ladders? You throw a dice \(fuck off, “die”\) and attempt to get from square one \(start\) to square one-hundred \(finish\) before your opponent. If you land on a square with the bottom of a ladder you go up; with the head of a snake, you go down. In the final straight, when you’re practically home and dry, there’s the head of a snake; it’s the longest snake on the board - if you throw the wrong number and land on that square you slide down the snake almost to the beginning. Why would they do that? They’re sadists..

It’s because it emulates real life. One day you’re cock-of-the-walk, master-of-the-universe, blah, blah – the next day you’re on your arse because you’ve been given a kicking by real-life. It’s great to feel self-pride and be happy with your achievements,

but the moment you become careless, arrogant, and start acting like a prick on a power-trip, that’s when the snake is going to appear.

Whoever invented the game Snakes & Ladders, knew about life.  Apparently, the game originated in ancient India, like 20 million years ago, where it was known as

‘Mokshapat’ or ‘Moksha Patumu’. The squares in which ladders start were supposed to stand for virtue, and those with the head of a snake, for evil. This is timeless wisdom, you cannot escape it. Don’t be a dummy.  

## Paid Employment 

Paid employment is unnatural - that's why so many people hate it. Work for free.

The problem with employed people is they expect to be paid for their work, and don’t expect to be paid for their leisure. This is what keeps them trapped. You should divorce time and money in that you may have to put in a ton of work with no guarantee of pay, but equally not have a problem with being paid for ‘no work’.

If you hate employment:

*Switch off your brain at work; switch on during 'leisure'. *

What the zombie does:

*Switches on brain at work; switches off during leisure. *

Freedom means never *having to* get out of bed for a wage. You are only going to achieve that if you start using your leisure time to *create something* rather than for mindless

entertainment. The pressure from your friends, partner, or other zombies may be to take it easy, go out, “watch a movie”, go shopping, or do some shit which fills the weekend.

Keeping the company of these people is like trying to run in treacle. They are actively \(whether they know it or not\) holding you back. Kill the fuckers. The company you keep is the most important thing which determines how well you’ll do in life. If your friends are mindless morons it is better having no company.

**'Work for free, get paid for leisure' - **the reverse of most people’s mindset. In fact, they would regard this statement as ludicrous. That’s because they don’t have the capacity to understand something outside their experience. Once you understand the reason why a gardener creates a beautiful garden you start to shift your mindset about being able to profit from leisure.

Being paid per hour is bullshit. Being paid *forever* because you enjoy what you do is freedom.

****

## Death Ground Strategy 

****

The Death Ground Strategy *guarantees* you can leave your shit job, but you may become homeless, starve, or even die if you can't find an alternative way to make an income \(or some scheme\) to help you survive. The Sensible Strategy is to save money, have some investments or start something on the side which makes extra money whilst you're employed. The downside is this may take ten years or *never happen*, as life, the job itself, or other commitments get in the way. You stay trapped, get fat, and your brain turns into something resembling porridge. Most people choose the Sensible Strategy as it * is* the sensible route. They’re sensible people.

1 If you want money more than you hate employment, you can choose the sensible strategy.

2 If you hate employment more than you want or love money, you can use the death ground strategy.

3 If you are lazy \+ spineless you can buy lottery tickets \(stop reading this book, you don’t deserve it\)

If you use the death ground strategy \(you have no safety net\) your normal life will explode. The explosion will temporarily wipe out what is bad *and* good in your life. If you utilise the sensible strategy you should listen to the internet experts on how to make money, but understand that the probability of leaving employment forever will be less than 20%.

Generally, life should be a series of ‘Safe to Fail Experiments’ i.e. if something doesn’t work out it’s not a calamity – you survive unscathed. That’s all well and good, but the reality is that some things are so important that you risk complete destruction for your

beliefs. The danger of the death ground approach is also its superpower, you have zero options but to survive. The problem for most people is that having a wage blunts their focus, whereas facing starvation engages parts of you, good or bad, you didn’t know existed.

Normal people do everything they can to avoid it, but the reality of the Universe, and everything in it, is creation from destruction. What is the problem with destroying your current life? If it’s pissing you off, fucking destroy it.

Death Ground Strategy

- Cast iron guarantee you escape shit employment

- No guarantee you won’t end up penniless and homeless

- Your focus will be sharpened – ‘sink or swim’ effect

- Desperation overcomes timidity/fear. You take on challenges you would normally avoid

- You engage personal qualities and resources \(good *and* bad\) you didn’t know existed

- Over time you get used to pressure which crushes the normal person

- You have more free time to research and pursue opportunities

- You won’t have the money to pursue some opportunities

Sensible Strategy

- No guarantee you will ever escape employment

- You’ll be able to pay your bills

- If you have a family, they won’t put be in jeopardy

- You will never face real hardship

- Your friends \(or people you meet\) won’t think you’re a loser

- A regular wage will dull your ambitions

- Your savings may disappear very quickly on leaving employment, forcing you to return to work

- The ‘sensible strategy’ is really a form of self-bullshitting - you are all talk, no action; just another wage slave \#fact

If you have understood the message of Gang Fit, there is only one answer. When you are in a shit low-paid job you will never save enough money \(or buy enough assets\) to be able to leave employment. If you’re from a poor background and have little access to money you should ignore advice from people who have always been comfortable, *until you are comfortable. * They have no concept of what it is like in your situation.

They are half-people, psychologically undeveloped. They are telling you to grow crops and wait whilst you are starving to death. Their advice to you is useless in your position.

The thing you should develop, and rely on, is your warrior mind, bomb-proof determination, and the absolute fucking refusal to give up. The Death Ground Strategy will force this upon you. It’s merciless, it’s fearsome – most people would never do it.

## Being Scared 

****

Blind rage overcomes fear

Desperation overcomes fear

Saving a child's life overcomes fear

When you've got a reason big enough you overcome fear. Hating being trapped at work so much so that life is an utter fucking misery, means you need to leave employment to save your life. It’s that or your soul dies.

Leave shit employment forever. The day you quit your job will feel like pure freedom.

Enjoy the initial feeling \(it will soon turn to dread\), then get to work as if your life depended on it.

## You Are Not A Collective 

People want to put you in a box, label you, say you are *this * or * that* – don’t stand for it.

Some people say that people “like you” have good qualities; others say that “your type”

have bad qualities – ignore both sides, they are wankers. They obliterate who you are; you’re just an object, not an independent person. To them you’re a stereotype. Their labels for you promote the idea that you are an unsentient part of a collective, you can’t think for yourself - you don’t have your own mind, your own thoughts, your own brain, your own aspirations, your own strengths and weaknesses – you are a clone.

A person who looks like you or has a similar background is not your representative or spokesperson – they don’t speak for you. Leave any group which demands your conformity; what they’re really after is power – don’t fucking give it to them. They won’t control you - you can’t be controlled.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Be proud of who you are but don’t get bogged down in your past – that’s how wars start. All around the world wars are started and caused by fuckers who are part of a tribe, culture, or ethnic group – carrying on their pathetic gripes over the generations; squabbling about some shit that happened 500 years ago. These pinheads get born,

fight, then die – like programmed robots. Don’t waste your time arguing about all the wrongs that people like you suffered centuries ago – they’re all dead. You are no different to the people who wronged you.

The only war you should be waging is the one against zombiefication.

Zombies label you. They want you to fight their wars. When you refuse, you are “letting the side down”. Then they’ll start to denigrate you, then hate you. All the world hates an apostate. An apostate is someone who has left the clan. The clan detest the apostate more than their enemy. Don’t worry, pea-brains hate independent people, it’s in their nature. Stay strong, stand firm, and resist their bullets and bombs with your will-power.

They will go to their graves as slaves, you will go to yours as a sovereign individual.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Two mini-essays on ***action***. If you have a problem with repetition, understand that Gang Fit can do anything it likes:

**The World’s Favourite Hobby **

* *

If you want to write a book, write a book. If you want to build muscle, build muscle. If you want to lose weight. Lose weight. If you want to make money, make money. Some \(many\) fuckers will tell you it’s not that simple - there’s not enough time; there are too many problems, blah, blah…

What’s the world’s favourite hobby? Making excuses. Loads of excuses, a shit-tonne of excuses. Excuses vomit out of people the way promises vomit out of a politician.

Take note of how the average zombie talks. You’ll notice how many bullshit reasons they spew for why they can’t do this or that. These are the sort who are going to change something major next week, next month, next year – you’ve heard that right? There are 100 reasons why you can’t do something, 101 of them are bullshit. People who make excuses are fucking irritating, tell them to their faces they’re bullshitters – then look in the mirror and say it to yourself

## Action Beats Bullshit 

When you walk in a straight line, depending on your ambition you are either getting further or getting closer to your starting point. Either way the distance behind you is growing and the distance in front of you is reducing.

**TASK** – Whatever you’re thinking of doing, just start it. Do you know how many people say, “I’m going to write a book”, “I’m going to get fit”, “I’m going to be a millionaire”? Millions of them. And what happens? Nothing. Nothing happens. Stop talking bullshit about doing this or that. Stop reading books about doing this or that.

Stop taking advice about this or that. Stop sitting under a tree in a park, thinking about this or that. Somehow people convince themselves that all of that shit means they are being proactive. That’s delusion. All the ‘action’ is in their heads.

Young people have all sorts of ambitions and visions of a life in their heads – if that’s you, act on those visions before you get old. Chronic inaction is like slowly bleeding to death. It’s the worse form of death there is – a complete waste of a life.

****

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

****

****

**The Downside Of Losing Money Is All In Your Head **

Going from $100 per week to $500p/wk feels great. Going from $500 to $1k feels great, but going back to $500p/wk feels miserable. Going from $1k to $2k feels great, but falling back to $1k p/w feels rubbish. Going from $2k to $5k feels great, but sliding back to $2kp/wk feels crap. At what level does this stop? If a person wants a fortune it's the right attitude to have, never being satisfied - but it's not healthy. If all you want from life is lots of money you don’t have a life. Always wanting more money is a sort of illness. If being *comfortable and free* doesn’t make you happy, being *more* *comfortable* won’t make you happy. Your problem isn’t lack of comfort but that you are ungrateful. In your rise to the top don’t turn into a prick.

**TEST:** If you lose money when you’re wealthy, turn this ungrateful dynamic on its head by giving some of your remaining money away. This will defeat your demons.

****

****

## Hell Is You 

If you don’t do anything in life, your time on earth will slowly turn to shit. Your existence will become so meaningless that a short bus ride to your local shops will be the highlight of your day; you might as well kill yourself. You’ll be no good to yourself or anyone else – you could exit the gene pool and no one would notice. That’s sad. But many sad people still have someone who loves them, someone who cares about their happiness and wellbeing. If this is you, you need to honour that person by not destroying your life through fear, timidity, ignorance, blaming others, laziness, and chronic inaction. The thing about improving your life is that you also improve the lives of the

people who care about you. If you hate yourself, think about the people who *really* support you and the effect your disintegrating, unfulfilling, shit life is having on them.

Stop feeling sorry for yourself. Stop sitting in your bedroom with the curtains drawn, listening to miserable songs produced by people who only want to make money from self-absorbed non-entities like you. If you’ve died your hair green, put on weight, and walk at one-mile an hour, something seriously needs to change. You need to save yourself. If you can’t do it for yourself, do it for the people who care about you.

****

****

## Make The World More Unequal 

****

Your aim in life should be to diverge from the zombies, you don’t want equality, you don’t want to be the same, you don’t want to have what everyone else has. Real diversity has fuck all to do with skin colour, gender, or some other vomit people preach about.

Zombiefication overwhelms all that pseudo diversity shit. De-zombiefication is the real diversity, not what type of car you own, the house you live in or the colour of your socks. People talk about diversity but bleat about lack of equality, what sort of stupidity is that?

Don’t get caught up in other people’s notions of how the world should be. Real diversity is the magic of life – *make more of it* by separating yourself from the homogenous mass.

Look at health, fitness, and strength – why would you want to be equal to others?

They’re pathetic. Free yourself from the aspirations of others, they’re not interested in diversity, they’re only trying to make everyone think the same; the opposite of diversity.

The real diversity is diversity of thought and diversity of living how you want to live.

Make the world more unequal by choosing how to spend your time. When they’re at work, you’re swimming in a lake. When they are rioting, you’re climbing a mountain.

When they are voting, you’re crossing a desert. When they are consuming you are creating. When they are complaining, you are planning. When they are comfortable, *you* are rioting. Fuck them. Live how you want.

****

****

## Escape Velocity 

****

The ability to run fast *will one day save your life* – maybe so you can escape from zombies, a volcano erupting, Arsenal fans, a collapsing building or a load of radioactive-bloodthirsty-rats. \[A group of rats is called a ‘ *mischief*’, which is sort of racist against the furry critters. They’re stereotyped as troublemakers, poor fuckers.

Rats are survivors not troublemakers. Maybe rats should call a group of humans a

‘ *pollution*’\]

Running fast is a feeling like no other – a sensation of overcoming gravity and time.

Pity the slow people who’ve never experienced it. For a few seconds you’ve attained escape velocity – straight into outer space. You know you’ve achieved it when there is

no sensation of effort, force, or ‘trying’ – you are not pushing against the ground, all you are doing is moving your legs up and down.

If you’re overweight and out of shape \(why?\) you have the potential to get seriously faster just by losing the blubber and getting fitter. If you already fit, lean, and reasonably fast you can get faster but it is easier to refine a tractor than a fountain pen – gross improvements will be more difficult to achieve than a for a person who is unfit and overweight. Still, you can refine the fountain pen to a razor What is meant by ‘ *running faster*’? Is it an improvement in top speed, or is it getting from A to B more quickly? In the process of increasing your top speed you *should* get faster over a sprint distance, but not necessarily over longer distances – unless general physical condition and endurance are improved. You want to improve your top speed \(which can only be held for a second or two\) *and* get faster from A to B – say, up to 200m. That’s enough to escape most life-threatening situations. Distances above that demand a greater focus on the elements of speed-endurance \(covered in *Gang Fit Pt1*\).

Before you reach top speed you have to accelerate, so an improvement in top speed necessarily means an improved ability to accelerate. The faster and longer you accelerate, the higher your top speed will be. Which comes before the other? Who gives a shit – you train both. It goes without saying that a super-fast 100m sprinter has a high top speed coupled with super-fast acceleration – they’re inseparable for elite sprint performance. If all you want to do is to accelerate quickly over a short distance, you may want to focus more on increasing your strength and power for short distances \(explosivity\), like shot-putters or Olympic weightlifters who often have a huge first 20m but ordinary \(relatively\) top speed.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

The two main considerations for speed development:

PHYSICAL - body composition, muscle, strength, nervous, metabolic, physiological TECHNICAL – sprint mechanics, posture, relaxation at speed Improvements in both of these areas will result in you running faster, guaranteed. Even if you only improve one area you will get faster. It may be that some technical areas sort themselves out in the process of physical training, either because your body naturally grooves in a more efficient technique over lots of repetition practices, or that technical deficits are actually caused by physical issues, i.e. lack of strength, being overweight, and so on. Note: There is a point which sprint coaches miss – mechanics \(your technique\) could be a function of speed as much as speed is a function of mechanics. The fancy term is *kinetics feed the kinematics*. If were you on a treadmill and it was speeded up from jog pace to running pace, your technique would change *because* of the speed

*Your speed development is split into two phases: *

****

**Phase One**: General Preparation \(getting in shape to run faster\)

****

**Phase Two**: Specific Training 

Note: There are overlaps\! For instance, posture and relaxation at speed are both general and specific - if you run like Quasimodo you may need to address this early on; however postural and technical elements are also elements of an elite sprinter’s training. In the quest to improve your speed you can decide what areas you want to include. Should the correct technique be taught early on? Probably; but if you are unfit and have 20lbs to lose that should be you’re your main focus.

****

**PHASE ONE: GENERAL PREPARATION **

****

The image below shows the typical sprinter’s physique - lean, muscular, and athletic.

This is the result of natural predisposition plus general and specific training. It isn’t particularly necessary to look like this to get faster, *only* that the main elements of being lean and strong can only help. The fact that most top sprinters look similar gives you an idea.

Asafa Powell – 9.72secs for 100m

Tom Tellez, Carl’s Lewis’s coach, once said, “There are plenty guys who are as big as houses, but slow as molasses” – don’t assume that putting on muscle *by itself* will necessarily make you faster. Your aim is to run faster by doing the appropriate training based on your strengths and weaknesses - how your body responds, time will tell. To a certain extent, *just running fast for two or three sessions a week will make you faster* –

that’s obvious, don’t be a dummy. * *

If you think you’re in good shape you can skip this phase; go straight to phase two.

Even if you are out of shape, going straight to the interval style training in phase two would work, as long as you don’t overdo it and get injured.

*Physical preparation* naturally entails a focus on exercise *and* diet. Cut out junk food \(mostly\), get enough protein \(one gram per pound bodyweight\), have animal derived fats, and don’t eat big meals late at night. If you want to take protein supplements or creatine \(look it up\) to aid muscle growth and strength development, it’s up to you.

It is essential to get enough sleep if you are training hard, forget about the ‘hacking sleep’ bullshit – you need sleep. Chronic lack of sleep will leave you a physical wreck if you are placing high demands on your body. Some nutjobs say they can perform at a high level on only five hours sleep a night. Don’t listen to them, they don’t know what high performance is.

***Phase One Template \(every week\):** *

2 x Gym

2 x Intervals

1 x Circuits

1 x Hills

If you find this is too much, drop the hills. It assumes you are doing no other hard physical activity or sport – if you are, you are going to have to modify as you see fit.

*Do this for 4-week blocks with a reduced week between blocks*. If you do gym and \(running\) intervals on the same day, do gym after intervals. Organise it so you don’t do track/intervals the day after a heavy session in the gym.

* *

*Example*:

Mon – circuits

Tues – intervals & gym

Wed – rest

Thurs – hills

Fri – rest

Sat – intervals & gym

Sun – rest

****

**Gym \(general strength\) **

The *main* purpose of gym is to build strength. There are different types of ‘strength’

but the strength you should be concerned with is the strength which enables you to lift a heavier weight in a given exercise. The rationale of the athlete is to build general strength as well as strength specific to their athletic pursuit. However, ‘specific strength training’ is very often just a deeper focus on the further development of an area of general strength, for example, squatting performance. In other words general strength *is* your specific strength.

Use these five exercises: squats, rows, bench press, barbell press and barbell curl – if you’re not sure how to perform them, look on the internet\! Use only these exercises.

The weight should be appropriate to the number of repetitions.

Session One

Squats: 5 sets – 8, 5, 5, 5, 8

Bench Press: 4 sets – 8, 5, 5, 4

Barbell Press: 4 sets – 8, 5, 5, 10

Barbell Row: 5 sets – 10, 8, 8, 6, 6

Barbell Curl: 4 sets – 10, 8, 8, 12

Session Two

Squats: 5 sets – 8, 6, 6, 6, 12

Bench Press: 5 sets – 8, 6, 4, 4, 3,

Barbell Press: 4 sets – 8, 8, 6, 6,

Barbell Row: 4 sets – 10, 10, 10, 10

Barbell Curl: 4 sets – 10, 10, 8, 8, 5

Have a light warm-up before each exercise then get straight into the work sets. It goes without saying that you’re going to have to work hard. These sessions are fairly short so you can give 100% effort and 100% focus.

## Interval Training 

Interval training is running a certain distance, having a period of recovery, then repeating. That’s it. For some reason, the term, ‘ *high intensity interval training’* \(HIIT\) is used by non-athletes to describe what has always been known as ‘ *interval training*’.

The fuckers think HIIT is new.

As this is the preparation phase there is no need to be too la-di-da with session selection.

Block One \(4wks\)

*Session 1:* 4 x 300m. 4mins btwn reps

*Session 2:* 10 x 100m. 2mins btwn reps

Block Two \(4wks\)

*Session 1:* 5 x 200m. 4mins btwn reps

*Session 2:* 2 sets \(6 x 60m\). 2mins btwn reps. 1min btwn sets Repeat if you do more than two blocks in this preparation phase.

Start off by just completing the sessions; as you improve over a few weeks you can time the runs. Make sure you time the intervals \(recovery sections\) from the get go though – you want to keep the recoveries consistent. When you do these sessions concentrate on running at a fair clip, but run with a relaxed face and shoulders. Don’t try to be a hero and ‘muscle’ any repetitions, it slows you down and wastes energy.

## Circuit Training 

Circuit training is a great way to get fit. It’s a quick and compact way of working out.

Try this:

* *

1st Set

Push-Ups x 20

Tuck Jumps x 10

Chinnies x 20

Mountain Climbs x 36

2nd Set

Bench Dips x 40

Barbell Curls x 10

Burpees x 10

Waist \(variations\) x 20

3rd Set

Barbell Shoulder Press x 10

Split Jumps x 24

Side Raises x 20 \(each side\)

Push-Ups x 20

Chinnies x 20

The first set is performed *three times* in a row with a few seconds between each exercise; then a five-minute break before starting the second set x 3, and so on. I.e. 1st Set x 3; 5min break. 2nd Set x 3; 5min break. 3rd Set x 3.

Circuit training is only limited to your imagination. You can add in your own elements, but make sure you work the entire body.

****

**Hills \(Optional\) **

Hills are fun \(if you like pain\) and inject variation into an exercise program. A well-trained runner can run very, very close to max on each rep without sacrificing the quality of the following rep \(dependent on the length of recovery between reps\). Run hard, hill sessions are fearsome. *This isn’t necessary for you *– a solid medium-effort session is all you need.

*Block One \(4wks\):* 2 x \(4 x 200m\) – walk back between reps. 10mins btwn sets *Block Two \(4wks\):* 3 x \(100m; 200m; 300m\) – walk back btwn reps. 10mins btwn sets Repeat, depending on how many blocks you do in this phase.

This is pretty straightforward - what did you expect, rocket science? Training doesn’t have to be complicated.

Obviously, you have to find a suitable hill, one which isn’t too steep, and which is long enough; if there isn’t one, be creative with the session. There is no need to time the runs, but remember – *solid medium-effort*.

****

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Three 4-week blocks should be enough for most people. If you want to continue with this stage, feel free; it will get you super-fit, dynamic and robust in itself – *and* you will have got faster.

If you are slim it’s good to put on a few pounds of muscle whilst putting on strength.

After a certain point you want to get stronger in key areas \(posterior chain and midsection\) at the *same bodyweight*. In other words, increases in relative strength.

By the end of this phase you’ll look more like a sprinter - fitter, leaner, and more muscular – ready for phase two.

**PHASE TWO: SPECIFIC TRAINING **

Now training intensifies. The focus shifts to more specific development. You may feel more tired through this phase; however, you shouldn’t feel completely fucked – that only increases your chances of injury; and means you are constantly training ‘with the brakes on’. If you get the plods you should back off for a while to recover and adapt.

The circuits and hills are dropped to concentrate on two gym and three interval sessions per week \(in 4-week blocks\).

*First, a bit about running and sprinting: *

Viewing the data in the table below, you’ll notice that top speed is not reached until around 60m. These are elite sprinters so doesn’t apply to you, but what does apply is that you have to accelerate\! The most common fault with non-sprinters is they go from starting to running upright far too quickly, this makes it more difficult to accelerate.

Ok, so you’re not going to be in a sprint race, you just want to get faster, but don’t cut off your top speed by not accelerating properly.

Elite sprinter 10m split data

*How a sprinter runs - an analogy*:

If you had a bike as a kid you've probably done this. Bike upside down \(you may have had to fix a puncture\) you spin the wheel with your hand on the tyre. Initially, hand

strokes are long to accelerate the wheel – as the wheel gets faster your hand-strikes get quicker, until at top speed the contacts are quick 'taps'. 1/ The quick hand-strikes or taps impart enough force to keep the wheel turning at top speed i.e. stops it slowing down.

2/ The sharp taps are more at right angles to the wheel \(vertical\) than the initial horizontal strokes which accelerated the wheel. 3/ The taps are necessarily short; any longer you would impart a braking force.

Ground contact times as speed increases.

The text below describes the difference between running and sprinting.

From ‘ *Speed Trap’* – Charlie Francis/Jeff Coplon \(1990\) A runner runs on the ground – a sprinter runs 'over' the ground. The faster a sprinter gets the more time they spend in the air. Cadence or strike rate \(how many steps in a second\) doesn’t change much with training but stride length increases due to the extra relative force being applied to the ground. A common misconception is that the athlete is pushing the ground back behind them \(horizontal force\), when in fact it’s the vertical force of gravity which the athlete needs to overcome. Research shows the vertical component becoming dominant very soon after starting

The above image from Ken Clark highlights the importance of vertical force application and how a sprinter differs from a fast runner.

* *

*Springs & Stiffness *

Stiffness is the extent to which an object resists being lengthened. Stiff springs have greater rates of forces development - they transmit forces quickly. Less stiff or compliant springs have lower rates of force development, they absorb energy. Strength training leads to increased tendon stiffness and increased rates of force development.

Think of a bicycle type fully pumped to the limit or half-pumped, or a sports car’s chassis – the stiffer the better for speed. Heavier loads when weight training produce greater increases in tendon stiffness than lighter loads – sounds good.

What you want is increased force production via strength training, plus better technique \(the application of that force\). Poor force application is like a leaky bucket, your energy goes to waste. The result of a net increase in mass specific force \(in the vertical vector\) leads to greater stride length. A great stride length with a fast cadence leads to a very fast runner. Cadence without stride length is like a ‘fiddlers elbow’ – you see this with children during a school sports day. Like a rocket, you need to increase net thrust to accelerate and get faster.

Note: you can be a very fast runner without being a sprinter. You may never run like a sprinter – most people don’t, but you can still be in the top 1% on the planet.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

***Phase Two Template \(every week\):** *

2 x Gym

3 x Intervals

*Example*:

Mon – gym

Tues – intervals

Wed – rest

Thurs – intervals

Fri – rest

Sat – intervals & gym

Sun – rest

****

## Gym 

Some changes to your gym session; it is now more intense and dynamic.

Session One

Squats \(parallel or butt to floor\): 4 sets x 6 reps

Jump Squats \(barbell ½ to 100% b/w\): 3 x 6

Squat Jumps \(30 secs after each set of J.Squats\): 6 reps Chin-Ups: 3 x 20

Parallel Bar Dips: 3 x 25

Power Cleans: 4 x 5

Various Waist

Session Two

Bench Press: 4 sets – 10, 8, 6, 4

Barbell Row: 3 x 8

Push-Ups: 3 x 25

Barbell Curl: 3 x 10

Alternate Dumbbell Press: 3 x 10

Various Waist

If you want to include some deadlifts and partial \(quarter\) squats, you can. Just make sure you don’t do too much work in any one session.

****

*Get strong, run fast*. As a non-sprinter who wants to run faster, there is no need to waste your time doing fancy sessions. Basic training will make you run faster – everything else is icing on the cake – try other stuff if you like but don’t do it in place of basic training.

## Interval Training 

If you want to get better at something, you have to do that thing, Einstein. Whatever has been said about strength and mass specific force, all that will be useless if you can’t transfer it to running.

Three areas of focus:

****

1 * Acceleration *

2 * Top Speed *

3 * Speed Endurance *

As you are doing three running sessions per week, you can do one from each category.

There are three sessions within each category; one for the first block, the second and the third block. Three blocks is a total of fourteen weeks \(this includes the one week rests between blocks\). Needless to say, for any accurate assessment of improvement the repetitions need to be timed, and the rest intervals between the reps and sets needs to be strictly adhered to.  

## Acceleration 

The main advice here is to ‘come up slowly like a plane’. As you accelerate, look down.

If you look up too early your body will pop up, cutting off your acceleration mechanics.

Use your arms vigorously\!

****

*Session 1:* 5 x 40m. 4mins btwn reps

*Session 2:* 2 sets \(3 x 60m\). 5min btwn reps. 10min btwn sets *Session 3:* 20m, 30m, 40m, 50m, 60m. 4mins btwn reps **Top Speed **

The number one technique is relaxation at top speed. Upright, ‘tall’, face and shoulders relaxed. When you have hit top speed you cannot go any faster – wasting energy slows you down. Think ‘flow’.

*Session 1:* 5 x 30m. \(Gradual build up to top speed, ‘hit’ for 30m; hold form\). Full recovery

*Session 2:* Hollow runs x 3. \(30m medium speed; 20m fast; 30m medium; 30m fast\) *Session 3:* 4 x 60m. Full out. Full recovery.

## Speed Endurance 

****

There is little benefit from building endurance at 6m/sec if your top speed is 10m/sec.

It’s called *speed* endurance; therefore, endurance should built in at a high pace. These are the most exacting sessions as they invite you to make friends with acidosis \(the accumulation of hydrogen ions\).

****

*Session 1:* 4 x 300m. 4mins btwn reps

*Session 2:* 2 sets \(3 x 200m\). 3min btwn reps. 10min btwn sets *Session 3:* 4 x 150m. 3mins btwn reps

## Extras 

****

You can try these for fun. These are performed over various distances; the amount of resistance or assistance can be changed according to the focus of the session *Resistance: *

* *

Pulling sleds, tyres or parachutes. Harness runs \(someone holding you back\). Wearing weighted jackets. Running up slight inclines \(2-4%\)

*Assistance/Overspeed: *

* *

Downhill running \(2-4%\), tows, 20m elastic ropes \(tied around waist\). Running with the wind.

You can also try plyometrics, box jumps, depth jumps and other jumps and bounds, if you want; but don’t overdo them.

From the table below you can get an idea of the sort of times you should be running for various distances. If you can run 8seconds flat for 60m \(say\), you should be able to run around 26secs for 200m.

From ‘ *Sprints and Relays’* – Frank Dick \(1987\)

It goes without saying that the type of surface you run on, and the type of trainers you wear, will affect your speed. The ideal is wearing spikes on an athletics track \(plus the distances are clearly marked\). However, as long as you have non-spongy trainers with a good grip \(on a hard surface\) you will get an idea of your true speed. You can train on grass, that’s fine – it’s easier on your legs, but if you want to do a proper time-trial to assess your speed do it on a track or hard surface.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Speed coupled with strength has multiple benefits. If you are only strong but not fast your strength is limited to what you can catch or fend off. There will be times when your strength is overwhelmed so you will need to escape – if you can’t, you’ll be toast.

Speed *and* strength are an awesome combination. If you’re fast, get stronger. If you’re strong, get faster.

****

## Like Attracts 

If your friends are idiots, you’re an idiot. If your friends are fat, you are fat. If they are poor, you are poor. If they are ugly, you are ugly. If they are losers, you’re a loser. If they are weak, you are weak. If they are wankers, you’re a wanker.

When you look at your friends, you look at yourself. When you start improving in life, the quality of your friends improves.

**TASK** - Before your life starts improving you should drop low quality friends. Better to have no friends than bad friends. This in itself improves your life. You owe them nothing. Keeping hold of bad friends is a sign that you are fucking about – you are not serious about progressing. Whether you drop them one by one or all at the same time is up to you – either way, you have to see less and less of them. Eventually you’ll wonder why they were friends in the first place. If you do bump into them later in life they will look the same, talk the same, and discuss shit that is of no interest to you. Well done, you’ve moved on.

## A Job Kills Your Dreams 

Going to work every day blocks out why your life is going nowhere. It's an avoidance strategy. It lets you ignore hard questions. This is why a dose of unemployment \(through redundancy/walking-out/banging the boss’s daughter\), or being forced to live in a cave for 30 days \(an experiment\) is positive for people who don’t have a walnut for a brain.

Being \*trapped\* in employment kills your dreams but pays your bills.

How your dreams are killed:

1 A regular wage reduces your drive – you’re ‘comfortable’

2 Working 35hrs a week reduces your free time

3 The people you work with have a slavery mindset which infects you 4 Like a long prison sentence you become institutionalised 5 A good job is seen as success; there’s no need to try

6 The longer you’re employed the more fearful you become of unemployment 7 You lose faith in your own ability to make money

****

Let’s reverse the idea that the employed are in a better position than you if you are unemployed. The employed have money - a car, house \(perhaps\), two children, a cat, and a membership to a fancy gym with tennis courts and a juice bar. Compared to them you are a loser – you have no money, you shop at cheap supermarkets, you live in shit-town, and the heels of your shoes are worn down to an angle.

****

****

****

****

****

Note: Only a few rich people \(who don’t give a damn\) or the poor have shoes worn down like this. The rich may choose to look poor, but the truly poor don’t have the choice not to look poor. If you have little cash, you know it right? Some stupid comfortable people talk shit about how buying one expensive item is better and lasts longer than a few cheap items – what these idiots don’t understand is that a poor person never has enough money to buy an expensive item. Proof that people who have always been comfortable are the dumbest individuals on the planet. Further, if you get into a fight or need to scramble over a high wall to escape a gang or the cops, is it better to be wearing something cheap or Louis Vuitton trousers and Gucci loafers?

Back to the point: If you have no job you may have less money than an employed person but your potential is greater, you are not tied down. You have no boss telling you what to do. The day is yours; you can try what you like. Think about it this way - is it better to be free or a comfortable slave? Having no money is only a temporary problem whereas being a wage-slave is a chronic condition. Pity the employee – getting drunk on a friday night after work is medication for their chronic condition.

Being unemployed means you may look like a loser to others, but if you are *gainfully* *unemployed* i.e. developing your talents, researching, experimenting and building your future, you will one-day leave them behind - the poor zombies won’t realise what happened, they’ll still be stuck in slavery but you’ll be free.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Employment kills your dreams; unemployment fuels your dreams. Some people who have lost their jobs because of some circumstance have been given the biggest opportunity of their lives. Years later they will look back to it as the best thing that ever happened to them.

Unemployment scares the shit out some people but liberates others. The ones who are scared will desperately scramble back to work even accepting worse conditions than their previous job. If you have any self-pride you will never accept that – rather starve.

You can feel sorry for the employed, but don’t mix with them – they may infect you with their \#mindvirus.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

*If you are young and ambitious a job should only ever be temporary*. A job is like cancer, it weakens you. Staying too long will severely inhibit your progress. Families actually have parties when their kids pass their driving test, get a job or a promotion.

The zombies are actually celebrating being trapped and conforming. Yet when their kids were young they praised them for drawing a picture or singing a song – what the hell happened? Even parents can’t be trusted\!

If you've been writing, painting, fighting, creating or producing for six years but make no money from it - people think you're a loser. The next two years when you make good money from it - people think you're a winner. Don’t expect people to understand or support your efforts if you are making no money from it, but ignore their bullshit praise when you make something of yourself from it. Their opinions are worthless.

It doesn’t matter about your worn-out shoes or your lack of money, all that matters is where you’re heading. Just keep going, don’t stop. Only stop when you’re dead.

## Monster 

The real enemy isn’t the one you can see, but the one who looks normal. You don’t know they’re the enemy until you step out of line. There are millions of people like this, they’re everywhere. Scratching their surface reveals a monster. What makes the monster really terrifying is they think they are being reasonable. The reasonable person will oppress you, take away your freedom to speak, imprison you, and watch you slowly die because they believe you are being unreasonable – you either don’t believe what they believe or you simply question it. Your individuality is at odds with their reasonableness.

Don’t be scared of the dictator, the dictator creates resistance, people fight back – you’ll have allies. But you should be very scared of the normal person, they don’t create resistance because their views are the zeitgeist; only a troublemaker or uninformed idiot would disagree with their reasonable views. The monster will take away your rights because your views are faulty. You need to be re-educated before you can participate in normal society where normal and reasonable people live.

When you start thinking for yourself you instantly become a threat to normal people, they can see you don’t give a shit about their lives and their beliefs. They think you’re the monster, which is laughable as you have no interest in controlling people or telling

*them* how *they* should live. If you are young and wild you need to protect your freedom.

Leave other people alone, but if they try to control or dominate you, fight like a fucking tiger. They can’t control you.

As you progress you will meet other people like you, not because they look like you but they think like you – individuals of all colours and races who value freedom over slavery. The don’t give a damn about the zeitgeist or what society expects - just like you. All they care about is creating something, improving their lives and the lives of their tribe. This may be in art, sport, business, farming – whatever, it doesn’t matter.

Some may be rich, some may be poor – they’ve rejected the rat race, conformity and living like a trapped zombie. Just like you.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
 

The real enemy is your next-door neighbour. Beneath the surface of millions of normal looking people is a monster. A ‘reasonable’ monster. A monster who knows what’s good for you.

****

****

**Major & Minor Keys **

**Major**: You, your family, the people you love

**Minor**: Everybody else

Do-gooders and other weirdos want you to spend more time concerned with the plight of others than yourself. Stuff that. If that is your mission, all well and good - if it isn’t, don’t waste your time. All the people who need your help don’t give a fuck about you, why should they? Return the favour. The real point is not that you should be a prick and not help *anybody*, but that you should ignore people who think you should care about what they care about.

Gang Fit will annoy many people as they think its message is anti-social, as if looking after yourself and your family isn’t something that humans haven’t been doing forever, fucking idiots. Humans were never evolved to be concerned about other people outside their extended family and band of brothers/sisters. Arsenal fans, depressed people, poor people, minorities, ugly people, fat people – they all need help; let other people help them.

## Nettles 

****

Have you ever been stung by a nettle? Most people have heard that a dock leaf \( *Rumex* *obtusifolius*\) alleviates the sting from a nettle \( *Urtica dioica*\), but what they don’t know

is the pain from the sting is soothed by the crushed nettle leaf itself \(try it out\). The nettle provides the cure for its own sting. What sort of bullshit is that?\! Seems sadistic to hurt you than relieve you – if that was a person they wouldn’t be right in the head.

However, the natural world is very intelligent, it does things for a good reason.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

If you have a problem, maybe the answer to the problem is hidden in the problem itself?

This could be totally wrong, in which case burn this book to alleviate your irritation.

****

****

## Surviving Shit Street 

If you live in a shit area, have you seen the guys with headphones on dancing and swinging their arms around? You think they’re happy? Shit no, far from it - they are singing and dancing on their own graves. A grave with a headstone which reads, “Here lies the hopes and dreams of a young person”. They are not having a good time – they are either mentally unstable or are doing it as a reaction to the shit of their everyday lives – it’s a coping mechanism. They exaggerate happy emotions because their lives are nothing. Gang fit says this because it knows all the shit they don’t teach at school.

If you live in shit street for too long it will start to affect your mind – all in bad ways.

Eventually, the irresistible force of shit street will completely overwhelm you – too much trouble, too much tragedy, too many friends dead, too many scars. Everything has its limit. You have a limit which shit street *will* overwhelm. The lessons you learn and the toughness you gain from living in a shit area should allow you to move *out of* *that area*. If it doesn’t, what the fuck are you doing?

*Some places are so bad, the only way to survive is to leave. *

No matter what Gang Fit has told you about getting strong, being street smart, building your physical and psychological armoury, the only long-term way to survive the street is to escape the street – no one who stays in the street for life, survives it. The advantages you get from living in shit street will only allow you to thrive in shit street for so long.

Look at the long-term residents of shit street, their faces are etched with the bullshit of living in an area where you open your front door to garbage, filth, cracked pavements and brain-dead zombies.

If you live in shit street and have a shit job \(90% of jobs are shit\) you have problems squared. However, if you have a brain you have been given a gift, the gift of sheer hatred of your existence, like a simmering nuclear bomb – this will give you the energy to escape.

Question: If the area you live in is crap what’s better for you - changing your ‘internal perceptions’ or changing where you live? Meditation gurus, mindset experts and people who tell you to find ‘inner calm’ say the world is what it is, neither positive nor negative, it’s how you perceive it that matters. That’s pure vomit. The people who say that are comfortably rich or comfortably retarded. If you live in a shit area and have a shit life; you have to *escape it*, not realign your freakin' chakras \(whatever\). Going for a walk in the woods is far better; it calms your mind and you are physically out of shit street. Take any positives out of your situation, yes. Use coping mechanisms to survive, yes. Your mind works for you or against you, yes. But if you are smothered in shit, you get out of that fucking shit as soon as you can. You need to survive before you can escape, but don’t cope so well that you don’t ever change your situation – millions of zombies do that shit; coping with an unsatisfying job, relationship or rubbish financial situation. Coping is necessary sometimes but the best way to ‘cope’ is to leave that shit behind. Some people are so stupid they use meditation apps on their phones. Sure, that will make their miserable lives better.

****

**Life Saving Advice -** If you have been living in a shit area for years, you *have to leave*.

If you never leave, everything good about you will die.  

****

****

**Expectations, Reframing, Mindset, Blah, Blah… **

****

You can like two things, but when you expect one *and get the other*, that other thing \(which you normally like\) can become disgusting. In other words, your expectations change how you view things.

**TEST** – This is a simple test, but you have to find the right person to use as your guinea pig. Find someone you know who likes coffee *and* red wine. When they are relaxing, watching some shit on TV, ask them if they’d like a coffee. If so, go to the kitchen and warm up some red wine and put it in a cup \(like a cup of coffee\) – take it to them and say there was no milk so you made them a black coffee \(at a glance, red wine in a mug looks like black coffee\). Sit down and wait to see what happens. It’s hilarious. On taking the first sip of ‘coffee’ they will be disgusted by the taste, practically spitting it out.

They thought they were getting coffee but instead got a mouthful of red wine. Even though they like red wine, their expectation that the drink was coffee meant the red wine tasted like skunk’s piss. This works every time – try it out on different people.

In eleven years at school did you ever do a test like this? Of course you fucking didn’t, because it’s a test which highlights something important, it makes you think \(as well as being funny\) and the object of school isn’t to make you think but to make you copy and learn ‘facts’. A book could be written about the implications of this test alone – yet school never taught you?\! Fuck school.

Lesson: Depending on your mindset what you normally like can become disgusting, and the reverse, what you hate can become something you like. The person you most love can become the person you most hate. Finding a dead mouse in your favourite food can put you off that food forever. If you are starving to death you will eat food from bins, the pavement, or half eaten by strangers – you may even eat someone’s vomit.

Ok, it’s not that you would like eating someone’s vomit \(what’s wrong with you?\) just that you would do it to survive.

How you react to things, how you perceive things, how you think about things is what matters – you can make life work for you or work against you. People are scared of spiders, heights, birds and other things which other people take in their stride. People love food which turns them fat and causes disease. All this can be overturned. If you have negative views or reactions to things, that’s quite usual – but if your preconceived notions are holding you back, you can change your beliefs about them in an instant. It doesn’t take years of therapy and ‘relearning’; you can change things in a second. If you have addictions or ‘vices’ which are doing you no favours, you can drop them faster than a heavyweight knockout, even if they’ve been a habit for years.

Look at the old fossils who say, “I know what I like and what I don’t like” – they go about their stupid routines and the same way of doing things, never trying something different. Most people are not self-aware. If you want to progress you need to become self-aware, aware of your limitations, aware that many of your beliefs have no real basis. People live and die not having a clue they were wankers – their opinions, likes and dislikes based on bullshit.

What you think you like, can be changed. What you think you are scared of, can be changed. Who you think you are, can be changed. What you think you can achieve, can be changed. All of it comes from your mind. It sounds like psychobabble bullshit, but it’s true. Steer clear of people who say, “a leopard doesn’t change its spots” or “you can’t teach an old dog new tricks”; they are not the sort of people you need in your life.

They think they know you; but they know shit - they don’t know you. They are putting you down, scoffing at your ambitions. Delete them.

How you view things can destroy your life or make your life. Don’t be like the losers who are stuck in their ways. You’ve found out from this test that the mind has the crazy power to turn your likes and dislikes upside down in a instant. Even if you never do the test, some situation or event in your life may demolish what you thought you believed in a second.

****

****

****

****

**90% ‘Correct’ But 100% Dead **

Here’s an example of normal school stupidity – in an exam you get points for showing how you worked out a maths problem even if the final answer is incorrect. Amazingly if you get the answer right but don’t show the working out you get points deducted.

What sort of arse-banditry is that? If you’re a free-runner and you ‘calculate’ that you can jump from one building to another but you fall to your death instead, what points do you get? If you start a business and have a perfect looking business plan with all the right elements, projections, market conditions, blah, blah, but your business fails after one year owing a shit-tonne of money, what points do you get?

Ok, you could argue that doing ninety-nine things correct and only one thing wrong means you deserve some credit, and that all you need to do is change one thing – you are closer to your goal. That means nothing in real life. Only results matter. Check it out when do important work for someone which you get wrong; “oh, I got most of it right\!” What do you think they will say? Will they give you any points? Fuck it they will.

Real environments are constantly changing, what may work one day may not work another, and the reverse, what didn’t work for years may one day work because the environment has changed. You’ve done nothing different but the outcome has changed.

Older athletes know that the training that works for them at 35 isn’t the same training that worked for them at 21.

It’s good to try things out and experiment. If your efforts fail you get feedback i.e.

experience – there is nothing wrong with that. But the idea that life will credit you with some sort of external reward for messing up is only something you learn from dumb teachers at school.

****

****

**School, Life & Zombies **

In real life you can make shit up, cheat, copy, get help with passing tests, set your own deadlines, decide what you want to learn, drop shit you don’t like, and go to the toilet without having to ask for permission. School is so unlike real life that it’s practically the reverse. Rather, school is unlike what *your life should look like*. If your life is like school, you don’t have a life. You don’t have any power. You have one hundred masters. Welcome to the world of the majority of people, scuttling around like ants – is that what you want? The message of Gang Fit \(if you hadn’t already realised\) is not to take advice from the average person. The average person is born, goes to school, goes to work, then dies. “Oh, you hate normal working people. How disgusting. Who do you think you are?\!” Shut up, zombie. Stick to your dull life of being sensible, moderation, and eating a balanced low-fat diet. Your life is a living death to people who value

freedom. The life of a free independent person pisses you off because they don’t give a shit what you believe.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Normal people will either love you or hate you; love you because you are what they want to be; hate you because you have what they can’t have. If you want to be a normal person, go to school, become employed and *stay employed *– congratulations, you’ve become a zombie.

****

***Same Shit, Different Day ***

* *

To be a normal person \(zombie\) you have get used to the idea of the same routine for 1000 years. That’s what it will feel up. It’s a non-prison life sentence. Even if you have different jobs it is still the same boring shit. Get up, go to work, go home, watch tv, have a wank, go to sleep – visit friends at the weekend. Gang Fit has it on good authority that it’s better being dead. School is preparing kids for this – worse, it is *grooming * them for it. So the school day replicates the work day; 8 hours a day, 5 days a week and a gold star for good behaviour.

The most boring people to be around are state school teachers – listen to them talk; academia, tests, lessons, exams and useless BS – none of them talk about making money, none of them talk about building a physique, none of them talk about starting a business; none of them have any idea that life outside the school gates is nothing like school. They’ve ‘educated’ themselves to stupidity – the special sort of stupidity that only the academically educated have. This is why teachers tend to socialise together, no one with a brain can tolerate their company. These idiots have been given eleven years influence over kids. Can you imagine that? “Give me the child, I’ll give you the man”. No wonder so many adults are vacant.

The same shit everyday will be your life unless you do something about it. Fight it.

Don’t allow it to happen. Delete the people from your life who are trying to get you to accept it, trying to brainwash you. They want to change you from an independent wild creature into a brain-dead zoo animal. The funny thing is, they’re not even happy –

they’re sick, they’re overweight, they’re on medication, and they don’t have enough money. Yet they are telling you how to make your life? Fuck them. Fuck school. Fuck teachers. Fuck zombiefication. If you think that is too extreme, you haven’t yet realised how dangerous normal people are.

****

****

****

****

**Escape Hardship, Then Escape Comfort**

Escaping from comfort is more difficult than escaping from hardship. Escaping from hardship only involves money whereas comfort is an insidious systemic condition - it smothers you; wraps itself around you like a snake. Hardship feels bad, it’s obvious you don’t want it – it creates the desire to escape from it. Comfort feels good; why would anyone want to stop doing something which feels good? That’s its power.

The most destructive things in life aren’t the things which feel bad but the things which feel good. Comfort feels sooooo good.

Two things happen when you become too comfortable; 1/ you get physically soft; 2/

you start talking shit. Progress comes from discomfort, not comfort – there is no way you can improve in *anything* if you are comfortable. Always being physically and psychologically comfortable turns you into a marshmallow..

Once you have left hardship \(congratulations\) and achieved comfort, *you have to* *reintroduce hardship* – physical hard work, business or creative challenges, new horizons to be investigated. The world is full of comfortable poor people and comfortable rich people – that’s why half the world is overweight and fucking ill; addicted to shit food, shit entertainment and ‘labour saving’ devices. When these idiots get old they can hardly walk up a flight of stairs. They deserve it.

A Gang Fit individual isn’t like the masses, they don’t give a damn what other people think is important - what others think is important is bullshit. They fight against entrapment, being controlled or being told what to do. When the world wants to give or sell them comfort, they go towards hardship. They understand that comfort is a cage.

****

****

## Fat Boy Get Lean 

****

Gang Fit isn’t a diet book – diet books are wank. If you live as a wild, free, independent SOB you should never need a diet book. Being overweight is for domesticated people, office workers and the “I’m-so-depressed-I-can’t-stop-eating-junk-until-I’ve-sorted-out-my-emotions”, idiot. Cookery books are the number one bestseller, followed by diet books. In a world where a billion people are still starving that’s bullshit. People are like pigeons trapped in a room with an open window, they haven’t got the basic commonsense to escape. If you’ve done all the tests, tasks and challenges in Gang Fit it’s unlikely that you’re overweight, it’s not your mindset – but if you have still have some blub you need to sort it out. But Gang Fit still isn’t a diet book…

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
 

There’s nothing worse looking than a flabby out of shape waist. If you have *any* self-respect you shouldn’t allow it. But first, let’s get something straight - you see those lard-arse sumo wrestlers? They’ve got even more fat than your mother in-law with the bingo-wings but they *have a six-pack*, it’s just covered with mounds of blubber, That’s what’s required for their sport, no shame in that. Sumos are tremendously strong and do all sorts of exercises, they have tremendously well-developed abdominal muscles. It used to be the case that post-career they’d lose all their weight and look normal – less so now because loads of non-Japanese do it. \[The Japs are unlike any other population in the world, they have a culture of discipline and respect – so much so, that they can’t understand people who don’t think like them. This is why they have the capacity to be murderously dangerous to outsiders. The underbelly of the ‘perfect society’ is complete intolerance to anyone who is different\].

\*\*You have a six-pack\*\* you only need to reveal what is already there. So, it’s not about “getting a six-pack” but getting leaner. Once you’re lean your midsection will look fine as it is. Your midsection may look different to someone else’s six-pack –

doesn’t matter, you’re lean. You don’t need to do loads of specific waist exercises like a gym moron, but you do need to do some form of resistance exercise \(not necessarily in a gym\) as that builds muscle, makes you heroic, and is good for your health.

## Never Jog 

It’s easy to lose fat. People who can’t shift the blubber are not only mentally weak, they are doing the wrong thing. When they *keep doing the wrong thing* they are mentally stupid as well as mentally weak - the hallmark of the person who has been fat for years but “wants to lose weight”.  

Don’t believe the stuff about being genetically fat, leave that to the deluded. It *may* be that you have a predisposition to put on fat but that is meaningless; what you eat and how you live is the deciding factor. There were no ‘genetically fat’ people in Auschwitz.

The worst way to lose weight is to eat less and go jogging – this doesn’t work and makes you a moron. One: Eating less makes you hungry – eventually you’ll cave-in.

Two: Never jog. Never, ever, jog. Run or sprint but never jog. You want to get lean.

right? Jogging won’t help you. Jogging hardly uses any calories \(might as well walk\).

If you’re so heavy and out of shape that you can’t run faster than a penguin, you shouldn’t be reading Gang Fit *unless* you are determined that shit will end. Advice: Don’t listen to any suggestions from a fat person. Ignore what they say, ignore what they do. Listening to a pod of fat people talking about diet and how to lose weight is like listening to poor people talking about how to make money – they’re delusional, steer clear of them.

Note: If you’re overweight, you’ve been told all sorts of bullshit about how to lose fat

– remember, most of the advice and facts you were given at school were wrong; advice on what to do to lose weight is probably the case as well. If you’re fat you may think this gives you some sort of advantage in a fight as you’re bigger than the skinny wimps

– you dominate them, even if it’s just by crushing them when you fall on them. Don’t be an idiot – they’ll be a pay-back. You’ll end up sick, ill or disabled…a pathetic mess

- the inevitable outcome for fat middle-aged people. \[You may have an advantage in that you might have plenty of muscle underneath your fat; that’s good. But if you’re

‘skinny fat’ you have got a double task, losing fat and putting on muscle\].

Generally,

1 Do some form of resistance training

2 Do high intensity exercise such as interval training

3 Eat no more than two meals a day

3 Reduce the carbohydrate content of your diet i.e. bread, pasta, rice, pizza, cakes, desserts, sweets. Eat as much meat, fish, eggs, non-starchy vegetables as you like.

More specifically,

***LC HP IF **– the way forward \(diet\) *

**LC **\(Low Carbohydrate\)

**HP** \(High Protein\) 

**IF **\(Intermittent Fasting\) 

* *

***PA RT IT LA FT **– the way forward \(exercise\) *

\[As well as helping you lose fat, this is your code for dynamic strength, fitness and robust health. It will enable you to achieve the physical targets in Gang Fit 2. Most of this they don’t teach at school \(another example of why school doesn’t prepare you for real life, even though they say it does\)\]

**PA** \( *Physical Activity*\)

**RT** \( *Resistance Training*\)

**IT** \( *Interval Training*\)

**LA** \( *Lactic Acid/Acidosis\)*

**FT** \( *Fast Twitch* *Muscle*\)

At first glance this may seem like a lot; it isn’t - it’s the normal life of a wild carnivore.

That’s what you should be. It’s only a lot of work for people who are used to wall-to-wall comfort.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

**LC** - Reduce the carbohydrate content of your diet i.e. bread, pasta, rice, pizza, cakes, desserts, sweets. Eat non-starchy vegetables

**HP** - Eat as much meat, fish, eggs, non-starchy vegetables as you like **IF** - Eat two meals a day in a 6-8hr window. Breakfast and lunch or lunch and supper.

Don’t eat large meals late \(within four hours of going to bed\) **PA **- Don’t do all your physical activity in the gym. *Lazy people* *only go to the gym*, they do no other form of physical activity. This is unthinkable for someone who is Gang Fit, but many people do it. They never lose weight.

**RT **- Some form of resistance training 2-3 times a week is essential, it helps retain/build muscle whilst you are losing fat. Muscle is metabolic machinery, it keeps you lean.

**IT** - Interval training whether it is running, ergo, rowing, cycling is the dog’s bollocks, do two sessions a week

**LA** - You need to reacquaint yourself with acidosis, a high heart rate and muscular effort, especially generated by the lower limbs. You do this as an interval training session. There is something about a lactic acid session which re-engineers the body.

**FT** - Engaging your fast-twitch muscle helps you build the dynamic strength and muscle of a wild beast

Don’t fucking question how or why this shit makes you lean, it just does. If you exercise \(and eat\) like this it will be *impossible* for you to stay overweight

\*\*There are exercise sessions in Gang Fit which you can follow. Once you have lost your blubber you will stay lean, even if for some reason you go through periods where you can’t exercise \(maybe you’re on a year-long rocketship to Mars; you lost your legs in a shark attack; you were pummeled by Arsenal fan, etc\)\*\*

****

****

****

****

**Metabolic Test Kit**

100m - ANAEROBIC

400m - ANAEROBIC, ACIDOSIS, aerobic

1 Mile - AEROBIC, ACIDOSIS, anaerobic

Easy 5k – AEROBIC

This example is running based, but you can use any physical activity you like in the way which utilizes these energy producing pathways – rowing, cycling, swimming, climbing; whatever. If you have developed and are retaining these three energy pathways you are virtually indestructible – you are as far from physical death as possible, plus your body is in the best shape to deal with environmental threats and diseases. Older people get weak, lose endurance, and can no longer tolerate acidosis \(lactic acid\). They literally lose the ability to generate energy. That’s serious shit. Fuck age, retain the ability to produce energy to stop getting old.

On top of this you may have your own test or metric which confirms you are in dynamic shape; the ability to sprint, do a backflip, jump up a 15ft wall, jump over a car, wrestle a tough opponent, deadlift three times your bodyweight, do one-hundred continuous squat jumps; whatever. Many people may think this is paranoid, but they are paranoid about keeping their jobs, having a monthly wage, and being a good slave. What *they* think is important means shit to you. Fine out what is important you – develop it, retain it, test it.

****

****

**Mash-Up Training **

****

When he was young, Arnold Schwarzenegger, with his best friend, Franco Columbu, used to go to the lakeside in the woods near his village in Austria. They’d take meat for a barbecue, heavy metal \(weights/barbells\) and their current girlfriends. They would spend all day ‘picnicking’; completing a hundred sets of barbell squats, swimming in the lake, eating meat and having sex. Ever seen a session like that in an exercise magazine? Arnie said this single session put half an inch of muscle on his legs. There was nothing his quads could do but explode. He couldn’t walk for three days. This is raw, animal training. Testosterone, flesh, pleasure, and pain. He didn’t read that in a book. He was a beast – working-out, fighting, and taking steroids. All he wanted was growth; huge fucking slabs of muscle.

**CHALLENGES: **

****

**1 **Take your usual 5-rep max weight and do 10 reps. This sounds nonsensical, “a 5-rep max is the maximum I can do for 5 reps\!”. No, it isn’t. It *definitely* isn’t. You can double

your rep count because you're only working hard, not super-hard. What you believe is your limit is nothing of the sort.

**2** Lift 10-15% more than your maximum deadlift. To do this you will have to put yourself in a hyper-crazed state. The crazed state overwhelms fear. Fear is the *reason* you need to be in a crazed state, a state of rage. Your max is not your max, it’s a pseudo-max. Note: Humans feel fear for a reason, usually for self-protection. The deadlift is the most fearsome lift, you could unzip your spine and end up competing at the Paralympics, throwing a shotput 75centimetres – that shit is definitely something to be fucking scared of. However, you regularly need to face your fears if you want to depart from normal society. The more you face your fears the stronger you become. Don’t argue with this, it’s true.

* *

**3** Take your 10-rep squat max and turn it into your 20-rep squat max. The demand this makes on your body is intense. You will feel like quitting after 15 reps, you’ll feel light-headed - your legs will be burning and shaking from the acidosis and muscular fatigue.

But keep going until you get through it.

**4** Mash-up training \(it ‘mashes’ you up\) is the hardest when you do legs. It makes you want to cry. Try a leg only month – nothing except your lower body. Take six leg exercises and perform 5 sets of 20 reps for each exercise. *600 reps* in total. That’s Arnie-level training. Just make sure you have an easy way to get home. Three days later, do the same. Do *only* this for a month, nothing else. Eat 50% more and get a load of sleep.

Your legs will hate you. Maybe you’ll die.

This sort of training celebrates of life by implementing a sort of physical death. The soreness you get from it screams at you that you exist. Life is about feelings; without feelings you are dead. Physical feelings are as important as psychological or emotional feelings. The Sun on your face, climbing a mountain, the taste of lemon, or the searing pain of acidosis and battered muscle fibres. Mash-up training confirms that the atomic nature of life involves utter destruction.

****

**“You’re Obsessed” **

****

A person who works 40 hours a week tells a person who exercises 5 hours a week, "not to be obsessed". Can you believe that?\! Shit for brains thinks that spending 8hrs a day in an office is normal, but spending a fraction of that time exercising is abnormal. This is why there is no point mixing with any one who has ‘shit for brains’ – they’re retarded.

“Obsession” as far as they see it, is actually * essential* for you – it’s the rocket, the launch pad, and the fuel. It doesn’t matter what is driving your obsession – money, hatred, anger, excitement or fear, it’s all good. Keep going, keep being obsessed – that’s how

empires are built. Empires which provide food and work for the fuckers who call you obsessed.

****

****

## 100 Slaves 

Every free person needs one-hundred slaves. Unless you live in the wild, you need someone to sweep the streets, empty the bins, build houses, clean toilets, and so on.

Life is made better because people are willing \(brainwashed\) to be slaves. They are not *your* slaves, you don’t own them, leave them alone. They are slaves to the system. A system which you should use for your own benefit. Some slaves think they are free, some are happy, some are miserable, some feel trapped but are too dim to realise they can do something about it – whatever, you need them.

Slavery isn’t dead, far from it; it is more prevalent than ever. That’s great for you.

Honour the slave, but don’t be one.

## Budgerigar 

Like most Sunday lunchtimes I was drinking at the pub with mates - one of them, Orlando, told us \(after a few pints\) about a ‘study’ he’d been conducting on his pet budgerigar. That was a time when ‘budgies’ were very popular even though many ended up escaping through the front-room window \(people liked budgies but it looks like budgies didn’t particularly like humans\). Anyway, just before going to bed Orlando would put a sheet over his budgie’s cage, this signalled to his feathered pet that it was time for sleep. If his budgie had been noisy, squawking some shit, it would immediately go quiet - the sheet ‘switched-off’ the budgie. In the morning when the sheet was taken off, his budgie started ‘chatting’ again, in the way the noisy fuckers do.

*The experiment*:

The sheet my mate used covered the entire cage, effectively blocking out the light - like drawing the curtains before going to bed. Over a number of weeks he slowly reduced the size of the sheet so that eventually it was only a piece of material the size of a beer mat. Orlando found out it wasn’t the dark which switched off the budgie, it was the act of putting a sheet on the cage. The little critter was responding to an instruction. Maybe my mate could have trained it to go to sleep with a click of his fingers?

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

Over the next few weeks following budgie story I spent less and less time going to the pub. I stopped going on a Sunday lunchtime. I realised I was becoming a birdbrain,

doing the same shit every week, following the same routine. This is what a lot of young people my age were doing, or so I thought – going to the pub, getting hammered and acting like a loser. I was no better than Orlando’s budgie. My background had brainwashed me into doing what other people my age were doing; work, drink, sleep, work, drink, sleep – like a robot. I thought I was free – far from it. My life was as programmed as the budgie’s.

Birdbrain

If you have been taking note you’ll know that Gang Fit has no problem with going to the pub, for fucks sake – but when you do what everyone else is doing \(and when they are doing it\) *just because* *they are doing it*, that’s when your brain has stopped working.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

After a few pints of beer conversations are generally meaningless, even if they seem deep or important at the time. *Budgie* *study story* was the reverse of this; it seemed meaningless to my friends, just a stupid story about my mate’s peanut-brained bird, yet it was actually a neat observation about the nature of human conditioning.

Ok, the budgie didn’t actually stop me being a loser by grabbing me in its claws and taking me from loser-land to winner-land; stuff like that doesn’t happen in real life –

you’ve to do it yourself.

****

****

****

****

****

****

****

**GANG FIT META-CHALLENGE **

****

Remember the 2-Point Plan? This is the simple goal of the Meta-Challenge.

- **Get rid of the shit in your life**

- **Add in what you want from life **

No matter what anyone else tells you, these are the most powerful two lines in your life.

Unlearn what you were taught – replace it with these two lines.

****

This is a one-year challenge. After a year your old life will be unrecognisable. It is terrifying – most people won’t do it. It will create huge upheaval - if it doesn’t you are doing something wrong. If you are doing jack shit at the moment you have nothing to lose – apart from possibly being made homeless. If you are financially secure but hate your life, you need to risk some of that security to make your life better. Gang Fit has never been ‘feel good’ bullshit. It guarantees you can change your life but it doesn’t guarantee you won’t starve to death in the process.

Leave your job – engage your brain. This is an essential part of the meta-challenge. If you can’t \(or won’t\) do this at some point during the year, stop reading now. This isn’t for you. If you’re not employed, all well and good - you have less holding you back.

****

*Where you are now: ***Attractor Landscape **

Read these sections and *act * on them:

1 Leave Your Job

2 Fit Work Around Your Life

3 Start Something

4 Get Fit, Get Strong

****

****

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
 

**ATTRACTOR LANDSCAPE **\( *adapted from ‘Anaerobics – Destruction &* *Reconstruction’*\)

The *Attractor Landscape* was a tool first created in the field of physics but has since been used to help an understanding of many other disciplines; genetics, neuroscience, robotics, political alliances and other stuff which people who think they’re important talk about. It’s also a good model for how to change a life of domestication, obesity, ill-health, mental prisons, depression and unhappiness, i.e. zombiefication. If you’re

young that shit shouldn’t be much of a problem right now but it will be if you follow the usual advice.

It also shows why * everything* can change in an instant, either by your own volition or by a change in circumstances beyond your control.

People are stuck in their routines, environment and relationships. Some may be good and beneficial, ok - but others are negative. Eating junk food. Not looking after your health. Settling for a life of financial hardship. Living in an area you hate. Supporting Arsenal Football Club - and other lunacy. Despite “efforts to change”, people fall back into their usual routine. How does the attractor landscape help us understand this?

## An Attractor Landscape 

****

Source: http://si-new.jenal.org/attractors/

You are the yellow ball. The valleys are the *basins of attraction*. The ball runs downhill to a basin of attraction and stays there - minor events or situational changes may move it but it settles back to stable \(sort of\) conditions. The depth of a valley is how much energy it takes to escape the attractor. An example could be that you hate your job, but the pay is good. The * width* of a valley is the range within which the attractor, attracts; you could say it’s the amount of influences in your life that keep you where you are.

**Figure 1**: A landscape with two attractors. A dominant attractor \(the one you are in\) and a latent attractor \(with the green ball\) - where you would like to be. The latent attractor is better health, living somewhere nicer, having a six-pack; whatever.

**Figure 2**: Three dynamics change the attractor landscape. *Firstly*, the latent attractor gets stronger \(it gets deeper\) Maybe because your health is deteriorating. You can see the increased benefits of being in it. You are more dissatisfied with life. Something has happened which makes it more obtainable. You talk to people who are living it.

*Secondly*, the dominant attractor gets weaker. You are more dissatisfied with life. You lose your job. Arsenal FC goes bankrupt. *Thirdly*, the ‘hill’ between the attractors gets smaller – it is easier to cross. You have saved money, so can take a risk. You get some sort of offer or opportunity in another city or country. A new gym has opened. You start a new relationship.

**Figure 3**: The yellow ball has gone. The latent attractor has become dominant. You have changed your life. You have escaped.

The attractor basin you are in *necessarily* reinforces itself. It is self-referential and self-preserving. Its dynamics are the ‘attractor’ that means you do follow the same boring routine every day. Things around you want you to stay where you are. External and internal forces meaning you never change, never get fit, never leave shit relationships, never stand up to people who treat you like dirt, you stay timid and useless.

There was a study about a group of unconnected individuals who took part in an experiment where they had to live in a cave \(something like that\) for a month. Shut off from their usual influences and realities of life, on release, half of them decided to change their lives - even though they had no intention to do so before they went in. Just being outside of their basin of attraction for a while was enough to give them the impetus \(kick up the arse\) to change. The self- reinforcing dynamic of the attractor had been cut off. A different environment had given them a glimpse into new horizons and possibilities.

*If something doesn’t change, nothing will change*.

If you don’t change yourself or your environment, everything stays the same - you will continue in your basin of attraction, * unless* the environment or dynamics change \(outside of your control\) which forces you to change \(divorce, redundancy, an accident, a stroke, a lottery win, meteor strike, shark attack\). Even then, when there’s an ecosystem change, many people choose to return to normal as soon as possible. Normal \(the usual life\) is what they know.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

*If you are stuck in a life you don’t want, or want to avoid a life you don’t want \(look at* *the people around you\) - stop pissing about like a loser: *

- What are the *attractors* keeping you where you are?

- How *deep* are the valleys, or ‘basins of attraction’? \(deeper = harder to escape\)

- How *wide* are the valleys? \(wider = bigger range of attraction\)

- Can you *move * the hills? \(change the environment\) Again, your landscape can change in three ways:

1 By your own making

2 An external event \(redundancy, divorce, childbirth, volcano eruption, winning the lottery, etc\)

3 Slowly over time \(positively or negatively\)

The meta-challenge is the first one – a conscious attempt to change your landscape.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*
 

****

## 1 LEAVE YOUR JOB 

Leaving your current job is the most important thing you can do to change your life.

There are different ways to approach it \(see ‘ *Death Ground Strategy’*\) but it is the number one component of the meta-challenge. It’s not optional, it’s \*mandatory\*. If you are bargaining with yourself over this, you are not serious about wanting to change.

You’re just another bullshitter. You cannot hold on to your job and change your life.

Develop and expand a side income whilst you are in it, but you have to leave at some stage. Don’t irritate me.

* *

* *

*Photo: Courtesy of Alessandro Riolo *

****

Look at the above photo, the tall guy at the back. Someone told me about him; * *

“My granddad fished in the Newfoundland banks in his childhood, walked over a sleeping sperm whale as a teenager, harvested coral and sponges in his youth, raced the swordfishes as a young man, directed the mattanza of tunas as a man, and farmed in the salt pans in the old age. The picture was taken at Sfax, Tunisia, second half of the 40s.

The guy on the left was my great uncle, his brother in law and life-long business partner.

They weren’t employed a day in their lives. Sicilian fishermen were after shares of the bounty”.

Many men would leave their jobs to live a life like this. Excitement, adrenaline, danger and wildness. No boss, just a band of brothers sharing the results of hard work, each willing to put their life at risk to save another. Pure fucking Gang Fit. Our ancestral heritage.

****

****

**2 FIT WORK AROUND YOUR LIFE **

*Fit Work Around Your Life*. * * Because this is so important, you are not taught it at school.  

Years ago, before dinosaurs ruled the Earth, I had a dream of living on a desert island but with an internet connection. Living in Nature with access to the grid. Thanks to nerds and geeks, this has now become possible for millions for people. Anyone who wants it can get it.

****

****

****

Photo: Lucia Simeoni \( *A Wood in Corsica*\) 

****

Part of fitting work around your life is that work is no longer work in the commute, trapped in an office, my life is shit, sense. It’s entirely different. You don’t hate work.

It has a real purpose. It improves your life.

Whatever beliefs and visions you have in your head, that’s what you need to go towards, don’t be ‘realistic’ and compromise. Being realistic has created millions of boring lives.

Be uncompromising. There are powerful forces that try to make you to fit in; this is why it’s essential to be \*actively\* creating your life as you see it.

The problem is that millions find employment, then fit their beliefs to work and the working week – they become institutionalised. The beliefs they had when they were younger slowly dissolve until they become husks, non-people; robots. You can tell these people by the phrases they use; “have a good weekend\!”; “Where are you going for your holiday?”; “What do you do for a living?”. You know that shit isn’t for you.

No kid ever wanted to be like that.

Your new ‘business plan’ is to do only the things which maximise the odds of achieving the life that you want. The most content people on the planet are doing just that. Only a zombie’s preferred lifestyle is a full-time job. Business owner, self-employed, employed, freelance, creator - all that is irrelevant. The new economy and unlimited opportunity means the motivated individual can prosper.

Every time there's a commuter train strike 0.001% of the employed decide to leave the rat race. That’s because people are at the limits of what they can tolerate; some small event is enough to start a revolution. From now on you should only do things which are congruent with fitting work around the life you want. That’s your revolution. If your life, health, job, relationships and environment are crap, tomorrow will be crap as sure as a bear shits in the wood. There are some parts of modern life which are good, take those but ruthlessly drop the things which are negative.

***50 Weeks Vacation, 2 Weeks Work ***

Them: 50weeks work, 2 weeks vacation

You: 50weeks vacation, 2 weeks work

Whilst on a nice holiday, away from the usual day in, day out life, how many people decide that 'things will change' when they get back \(a new job, relationship, less commuting, losing weight\). However, once they return they slip back into their normal routine and behaviour? They’re pathetic. Modern life traps people into thinking what they do/feel on vacation is temporary while working their nuts off for a monthly wage is normal.

Organise a life where you don’t *have* to get up for a wage and you have no master who tells you what you can or can’t do. Use the vast power and network of the grid for your own ends - the only point of the Grid. You control it, it doesn’t control you. Whilst people are on holiday, you work, whilst they’re working you’re on holiday – a parallel universe.

## The Acute And The Chronic 

Modern life is characterised by the transfer of the acute to the chronic. The acute things which make us stronger \(or kill us\) have given way to chronic work, chronic exercise, chronic food intake, chronic boredom, chronic medication, and the slow drip of chronic stress. The chronic leads to physical and psychological fragility. The desire to escape the feelings of entrapment derives from out hunter-gatherer nature. People need some sort of structure, but they don't need domestication. Some people are quite happy being domesticated, being half-human. You’re not. The modern life of chronic routine, is no different to chronic eating – it makes us ill.

*Chronic income* is the only form of ‘chronic’ which is good for you, but you want to divorce it from chronic work. Chronic income with chronic work is slavery, chronic income with intermittent or hardly any fucking work is freedom. “But that’s not possible for everyone\!” Who cares? That’s good. A free person needs people who work 9 to 5; and the reverse, the employed live off the backs of people who create stuff and start businesses.

***Immensity-Ness ***

Be ‘immense’ in 20% of your time, then you can relax or fuck about 80% of your time.

Keep doing this and eventually you’ll be able to fuck about for 99% of your time. As a friend said, “hard work, works... but you know what's better? Realising that a fraction of the effort gets you most of the results, and recognizing what fraction to focus on.

Then you can use the remaining time to do whatever you want, without being beholden to anyone and without consequential risk”. Clever guy.

This is how you escape the Rat Race.

## 3 START SOMETHING 

There are only two types of income \(regardless of source\) chronic income \(the amount can be ‘guaranteed’ or variable\) or lump sums. If you have a huge lump sum it may not be necessary to have chronic income, although you would be advised to engineer an income from it as well as using \(some of\) it to generate more lumps sums. *Chronic* *lumps sums* are the dog’s bollocks.

Both are good; the lump sum carries you through lean times when there is no regular income; and a regular/chronic income feeds whilst you are trying to make a lump sum.

The lump sum you accumulate when you work will help you survive after you have left your job; a ‘side hustle’ \(a bullshit term\) can grow to generate enough income to allow you to leave employment – you have enough to pay the bills and eat If you have don’t have savings because you don’t earn enough you have to 1/ get, obtain, borrow, enough money so you can survive for six months; 2/ or create a separate income whilst you are still employed; 3/ leave work anyway and hope you can generate enough ideas to create some money to keep the wolf from the door; 4 a combination these – view it as a diversified portfolio.

Unlike most advice Gang Fit knows it is possible survive on credit cards, unsecured/secured loans, borrowing from friends, bank of mum and dad, and so on –

but it is risky. The downside is you run out of money, you alienate people, you can’t repay your friends/parents/bank, your credit rating gets obliterated. There is also welfare, free money from the State. You shouldn’t have any problem with claiming this *as long as it doesn’t make you lazy*, i,e. you should be *gainfully* unemployed. The downside is that the state hassles you to get a job, and people think you’re a scrounger

– fuck that, most people like free money. If Universal Basic Income comes in, you can leave your job knowing you will not starve to death. Fuck anyone who tells you they pay tax so that lazy spongers like you can live off the state. If it’s legal, do it. Gang Fit has mentioned this before, if free money makes you lazy, demotivating you from improving your life be very careful about accepting it. If it doesn’t, take it. When you

make money and start paying taxes you’ll be paying back into the system \(if you that’s how you care to view it. Gang Fit doesn’t give a shit because life is unfair and there are no rules accept your progress\).

***Certainty - Uncertainty ***

Certainty: $250 per week every week. Uncertainty: $125 to $1500 per week; varies.

Which one is better?

Uncertainty, risk, variability – apparently these are bad; you need security, safety, and knowing you can pay the bills. Ok, but there’s a downside to extreme certainty: I was at an annual Christmas get-together I have with old friends from school. It’s gradually become more depressing, they only talk about ‘old times’ – anyway, someone suggested we should meet up for a day out during summer. Here’s what one of my mates said, “I’ll have to look at my work schedule”. I responded, “you know what you’re going to be doing six months ahead?” He replied that he received a one-year work timetable at the start of every year. He could look up any day and see if he’d be working and what hours he’d be doing. What sort of bullshit is that? Might as well be dead. The spontaneity and randomness sucked out of life and replaced by certainty.

Since then I haven’t botherered going to any more get-togethers. These people have nothing for me. They look different \(like shit\). They talk different. They think different.

If you want to change your life; if you want an interesting life, you have to embrace uncertainty. Run towards it. The underbelly of uncertainty is opportunity, experience and feeling alive. A life without these is dead. Yes, it’s good to know you can eat and pay the bills; beyond that certainty has no merit if it is coupled with a boring shit life.

That’s the certainty and security of a cemetery.

The ironic thing is as your empire grows “certainty” becomes irrelevant and positive variability takes over. Yes, you may lose money, or not make sales, or a project won’t succeed but that won’t be forever – it’s just part of the trip through the forest. Expose yourself to the upside \(volatility, serendipity, surprises\) and limit the * really* stupid shit.

I understand there is a warmth to security, but it can make you torpid, you are smothered by it. Knowing *exactly* where your life will be in one year is a curse if it means you become fossilised. The meta-challenge is a journey, it doesn’t know the destination.

****

## Safe To Fail Experiments 

****

If you scatter five hundred seeds on different soils, in different conditions, and forty-five germinate, you haven't used computation, analysis, luck, targeting, research or probability to get results. You don’t care about the seeds which didn’t germinate. The seeds cost fractions of a penny. The idea of ‘safe to fail experiments’ is to pursue new

opportunities without spending too much money \(or time\) on any one opportunity. You can have a mega-project you are working on which may pay back big some time later.

However, it doesn’t you will have wasted lots of time anf maybe too much money.

Note: One of the good things about having no money \(or access to money\) is that you don’t waste it on speculative ideas, business start-ups and risky shit.

Come up with ideas/information/helpful aids, etc., *then automate them* – take out the admin and long grunt work as much as possible. A traditionally self-employed individual plumber/personal trainer/builder\) needs to put in the hours; they charge for their time, ok; but they can only increase their income by doing more hours of increasing how much they charge per hour – this has a limit. A well-paid solicitor or doctor can charge a lot for their time but there is this still an income ceiling, and comes with long hours. But if you have a business or an automated system which allows people to buy your product/service/information/idea/help, you can earn money whilst you’re asleep, on holiday, at a party, or in a brothel. New technology and the internet enables you to automate almost anything. Automating your ideas means you can earn money with minimum hours \(the immediate, medium, or long-term objective, depending on your motivation\) – not earning money with maximum hours.

****

## Crisis Management 

People think that crisis management is only necessary when there is a crisis. Nonsense.

Your entire life is a ‘crisis’ - if you do nothing it turns to shit, if you do a mega-wrong thing it can turn to shit, if you allow others to control you it turns to shit. Life is a long crisis. View it as something that will escape you if you don’t work on it. This doesn’t mean that life is bad; life is good, don’t be ungrateful – only that if you don’t take some sort of action, life will be a slow downward spiral into crap. Potential untapped; no use to anyone.

The US Marines have the motto, ‘improvise, adapt, overcome’. Don’t get stuck in your usual mode if it’s not working. This means you might have to turn what you normally do upside down to stay ahead, grow, or even to stay alive. This is the same idea as the OODA Loop \( *observe–orient–decide–act\), * developed by US Air Force colonel John Boyd in the mid-20th century, to prepare soldiers for combat operations. In environments \(your new life\) which are volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous the prize goes to the individual who can react to changing circumstances quickly and efficiently. Think back to the ‘Street Olympian’ essay in Gang Fit \(Pt 1\) – a real example of a teenager * * who out-ran a 800metre Olympian by utilising the variability of his environment…‘ *the street kid was a product of his terrain; agile and clever like a* *wild-animal. He utilised his environment, jumping over walls, zipping up stairs, getting* *through gaps, under things and over things - taking advantage of his surroundings*.’

There is more; in his book, *An Introduction to Cybernetics *\(1956\), Ross Ashby introduced his *‘Law of Requisite Variety’*. Known as the 1st Law of Cybernetics. Ashby was primarily interested in homeostasis \(in living systems\) - the way in which complex systems, operating in changing environments, succeed in maintaining equilibrium within tightly defined limits. Important: His law proposed that if a system is to be able to deal successfully with the diversity of challenges that its environment produces, then *it needs to have a range of responses which is \(at least\) as varied as the problems* *thrown up by the environment*.

What this means is that you have to be adaptable, develop skills, develop your innate talents and most important of all \*act on them\*. Nothing will happen if you *only think* *about doing things; * action beats thinking every fucking time. Stop writing lists, stop researching, stop fucking about – **start something\! ** * *

****

****

**4 GET FIT, GET STRONG **

There is no true freedom without health, it’s just not possible \+ being dynamically strong and fit makes you feel like a boss. Even if you are working hard to create freedom in your life, never forget about your health. Poor health ruins everything.

Base physical targets \(from Gang Fit 2\):

****

**Deadlift**: One-rep max of 2 x body weight \(general strength\) **Chin-ups**: 20 \(usable upper body strength\)

**100m sprint**: Under 13 seconds \(speed\)

**One mile**: Under 6 minutes \(endurance\)

**Body-fat**: 10-12% - a six-pack is just visible \(health\) How?

Resistance training – weights, circuits, and calisthenics Intervals \(HIIT\) – short to long \(anaerobic/lactic/aerobic\) 

Daily low-level activity  

Occasional 'mega' challenges

Loading:

45% Resistance training

45% Interval training \(short to long, anaerobic/aerobic’\) 1-2% Mega-challenges

~ 8% Random – mini & micro-challenges.

You don’t have to be autistic about this and copy it word for word – use your brain.

There are sessions you can use in Gang Fit 1, 2 & 3.

Note: There may be other physical targets which are meaningful to you – you may be a dancer or train for a sport, whatever. That’s good. Eat well. Keep active. Keep strong.

Stay healthy.

****

***The Gang Fit Meta-Challenge - You Have One Year ***

## Balcony Of Dead Flowers 

****

A teenager who’d left home \(because of ‘trouble’\) moved to a flat in a different part of the city. A nice flat, with a communal garden, in a nice area. The flat had a small balcony. For the first few years the balcony was covered with plants and herbs growing abundantly from terra cotta and ceramic pots. A bird feeder on one side - a solar-powered night light for sitting out on warm summer nights. Moths, bees, butterflies and birds would visit. Everything in life was good.

As our teenager headed towards her mid-twenties things in her life began to turn sour; a failing relationship, a dissatisfying job, a feeling that something important was missing. On the outside she was her same self, but on the inside she was incredibly depressed. You wouldn’t have known there was anything wrong with her. There was only one outward sign that something was wrong - the flowers on her balcony began to die. She no longer watered or cared for them. Nature’s small creatures no longer visited.

She no longer sat outside on a summer evening.

This lasted a few years, but one day she met a new person, a person who was right for her. She left her job and started an enterprise based on what she loved doing. Over time she felt happier, in fact she felt *very* happy - and guess what? Yes, Einstein – her balcony sprang back to life. Nature returned. An occasional Owl hooted “Hello” on a summer night.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

What has this got to do with you? Gang Fit doesn’t give a shit about religion or

‘supreme beings’ but when you gaze at beauty you are viewing the face of God. When you turn your back on beauty you are turning your back on all that is good in life.

Beauty is the key to life, it can be found amidst the most terrible destruction and hurt.

If your life is shit you need to create something beautiful – even if it’s only one thing.

Having something beautiful in your life protects you from all the shit around you. It’s the world’s most powerful shield.

Your life is a garden, you want it to flourish. It may be redesigned every now and then, that’s ok – quite normal. Many elderly people who have died leave a well-tended and loved garden behind, their life’s work, only for that garden to fall into disrepair – an indicator that you if you don’t tend to your life other forces take over. What about their partner? Here’s the thing, when a person who has been in a 40year\+ relationship dies, their partner dies withing six months – they have no reason to live, they give up - unless their children take over, the garden dies with them. Sad.

If your life has turned into ‘a balcony of dead flowers’, for whatever reason – fucked-up dreams, a lost relationship, a dead parent, or just the feeling of despair and hopelessness, you have to keep going, regrow your flowers and make them beautiful –

you tend to them, they will give back to you.

\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*

**Gang Fit** is street, it doesn’t give a shit what people think, it hates zombies, it detests full-time employment, it says that violence is sometimes necessary to protect your independence and sovereignty – *but its main message is that you need to create beauty* *in your life. *

**Thank you so much for reading. **

