+++
title = "45"

+++

—I offer a few examples of the sort of thing these petty people have got into their heads—what they have *put into the mouth* of the Master: the unalloyed creed of “beautiful souls.”—

“And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart thence, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them. Verily I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city” \(Markvi, 11\)—How *evangelical*\!...

“And whosoever shall offend one of *these* little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea” \(Markix, 42\).—How *evangelical*\!...

“And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire; Where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.” \(Markix, 47.\[15\]\)—It is not exactly the eye that is meant....




\[15\] To which, without mentioning it, Nietzsche adds verse 48.


“Verily I say unto you, That there be some of them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God come with power.” \(Markix, 1.\)—Well *lied*, lion\!\[16\]....


\[16\] A paraphrase of Demetrius’ “Well roar’d, Lion\!” in act v, scene 1 of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” The lion, of course, is the familiar Christian symbol for Mark.


“Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. *For*...” \(*Note of a psychologist.* Christian morality is refuted by its *fors*: its reasons are against it,—this makes it Christian.\) Mark viii, 34.—

“Judge not, that ye be not judged. With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.” \(Matthewvii, 1.\[17\]\)—What a notion of justice, of a “just” judge\!...


\[17\] Nietzsche also quotes part of verse 2.


“For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more *than others*? do not even the publicans so?” \(Matthew v, 46.\[18\]\)—Principle of “Christian love”: it insists upon being well *paid* in the end....


\[18\] The quotation also includes verse 47.


“But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.” \(Matthewvi, 15.\)—Very compromising for the said “father.”...

“But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.” \(Matthewvi, 33.\)—All these things: namely, food, clothing, all the necessities of life. An *error*, to put it mildly.... A bit before this God appears as a tailor, at least in certain cases....

“Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward *is* great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets.” \(Lukevi, 23.\)—*Impudent* rabble\! It compares itself to the prophets....

“Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and *that* the spirit of God dwelleth in you? If any man defile the temple of God, *him shall God destroy*; for the temple of God is holy, *which temple ye are*.” \(Paul, 1Corinthiansiii, 16.\[19\]\)—For that sort of thing one cannot have enough contempt....


\[19\] And 17.


“Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?” \(Paul, 1Corinthiansvi, 2.\)—Unfortunately, not merely the speech of a lunatic.... This *frightful impostor* then proceeds: “Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to this life?”...

“Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe.... Not many wise men after the flesh, not men mighty, not many noble *are called*: But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty; And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, *yea*, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are: That no flesh should glory in his presence.” \(Paul, 1Corinthiansi, 20ff.\[20\]\)—In order to *understand* this passage, a first-rate example of the psychology underlying every Chandala-morality, one should read the first part of my “Genealogy of Morals”: there, for the first time, the antagonism between a *noble* morality and a morality born of *ressentiment* and impotent vengefulness is exhibited. Paul was the greatest of all apostles of revenge....


\[20\] Verses 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29.

