+++
title = "48"

+++

—Has any one ever clearly understood the celebrated story at the beginning of the Bible—of God’s mortal terror of *science*?... No one, in fact, has understood it. This priest-book *par excellence* opens, as is fitting, with the great inner difficulty of the priest: *he* faces only one great danger; *ergo*, “God” faces only one great danger.—

The old God, wholly “spirit,” wholly the high-priest, wholly perfect, is promenading his garden: he is bored and trying to kill time. Against boredom even gods struggle in vain.\[21\] What does he do? He creates man—man is entertaining.... But then he notices that man is also bored. God’s pity for the only form of distress that invades all paradises knows no bounds: so he forthwith creates other animals. God’s first mistake: to man these other animals were not entertaining—he sought dominion over them; he did not want to be an “animal” himself.—So God created woman. In the act he brought boredom to an end—and also many other things\! Woman was the *second* mistake of God.—“Woman, at bottom, is a serpent, Heva”—every priest knows that; “from woman comes every evil in the world”—every priest knows that, too. *Ergo*, she is also to blame for *science*.... It was through woman that man learned to taste of the tree of knowledge.—What happened? The old God was seized by mortal terror. Man himself had been his *greatest* blunder; he had created a rival to himself; science makes men *godlike*—it is all up with priests and gods when man becomes scientific\!—*Moral*: science is the forbidden *per se*; it alone is forbidden. Science is the *first* of sins, the germ of all sins, the *original* sin. *This is all there is of morality.*—“Thou shall *not* know”:—the rest follows from that.—God’s mortal terror, however, did not hinder him from being shrewd. How is one to *protect* one’s self against science? For a long while this was the capital problem. Answer: Out of paradise with man\! Happiness, leisure, foster thought—and all thoughts are bad thoughts\!—Man *must* not think.—And so the priest invents distress, death, the mortal dangers of childbirth, all sorts of misery, old age, decrepitude, above all, *sickness*—nothing but devices for making war on science\! The troubles of man don’t *allow* him to think.... Nevertheless—how terrible\!—, the edifice of knowledge begins to tower aloft, invading heaven, shadowing the gods—what is to be done?—The old God invents *war*; he separates the peoples; he makes men destroy one another \(—the priests have always had need of war....\). War—among other things, a great disturber of science\!—Incredible\! Knowledge, *deliverance from the priests*, prospers in spite of war.—So the old God comes to his final resolution: “Man has become scientific—*there is no help for it: he must be drowned\!*”...


\[21\] A paraphrase of Schiller’s “Against stupidity even gods struggle in vain.”

